日本人 は アメリカ 人 に 服従 する べき 国民 ？  ビジネス の 現場 で の 経験 が 豊富 で ある から こそ語れる エピソード や アドバイス が 盛り込ま れ て いる し 、 良書 の 部類 に 入る と は 思う し 、 若い人 に は 有用 な 情報 かも しれ ない 。「 お忙しい 」 による 誤解 や 、 即断 即決 は 本当 に そう だ と 思い ます が 、 脳神 経 の 専門 家 でも ない の に 「 右脳 」「 左脳 」 について 微妙 に 断言 こそ避け て は いる もの の 、 血液 型 による 性格 分析 て いど の こと に 紙数 を さく の は どう かと 思う 。
  　 アメリカ は 多様 だ と 言う が 、 インターステート （ 国道 ） を 降りる とどこ の 土地 で も 同じ ファーストフード ・ レストラン が 並ん で いる よう な 国 が そんな に 多様 な の だろ う か ？ 大企業 でも ベンチャー で も 株式 上場 する 国より も 、 サントリー の よう な 有名 非上 場企 業 が 存在 する 日本 の ほう が 多様 だ と 言える 部分 も ある の で は ない だろ う か ？
  　 日本人 に も 「真 の リーダー 」 に なれ 、 と 語る 著者 の 情熱 に は 敬意 を 示し たい が 、 よく も 悪く も 記者 クラブ 制度 や 経団 連 の よう な 組織 が あり 、 監督 官庁 と の 連携 を 求め られる 日本 の ビジネス 界 を 知っ て い て そう 主張 する の で あれ ば 、 もうちょっと 責任 ある ロジック と 方法 論 を 展開 さ れ たほう が ロジカル だし 、 説得 力 が あろ う という もの 。
  　 シングルタスク の 部分 で 、 日本人 が 会議 中 に 議題 を 行っ たり 来たり し て 集中 力 に 欠ける よう な 行動 に 苦言 を 呈する の は もっとも だ が 、 アメリカ が 多様 性 を 重んじる の で あれ ば 、 外国 人 で ある 日本人 に アメリカ 人 と 同じ 行動 パターン を 求める 行為 こそ 非難 さ れる べき とす べき で は ない の だろ う か ？ 日本 は 「ぶら さがり 」 文化 です 。 記者 会見 後 に 記者 会見 で 意見 を 述べ た 参加 者 に 「 真意 の ほど は ？」 と 訊く の が 日本人 。 そういっ た 西洋 人 と 日本人 と の 間 に 、 ビジネス 感覚 の 違い が ある と 説く の は 有益 な こと で は あり ます が 、 英語 を 話せ ない 日本人 にすべて を 理解 しろ 、 という の は 無理 な 話 で は ない だろ う か ？ 無理 だ と 知り つつ 、 あえ て 日本語 で こういう こと を 述べ て アメリカ 側 と 日本人 クライアント を 疑似 理解 から 契約 へ 持っ て いく 手法 は 、 本当 に コンサルタント らしい 。（ 某大 手広 告代 理店 の 手法 で も あり ます が 。） 
  this  book  for  the  japanese  readers  titled  " work  techniques  to  make  yourself  globalized "  comes  with  stories  and  advice  from  the  author  masaharu  " hal "  amano .    it  is  not  a  bad  book  at  all .    in  fact ,  i  believe  it  is  a  useful  and  insightful  book  for  young  japanese  business  people .    i  really  do  find  it  true  when  he  talks  about  an  episode  between  a  japanese  executive  visiting  the  usa  to  meet  his  counterpart  at  a  us  company  only  to  generate  miscommunication  because  he  used  the  word  " busy "  to  express  his  gratitude ,  which  was  incomprehensible  for  the  american  executive .    same  for  his  argument  that  we 'd  be  better  off  by  making  snap  decisions .    i  find  his  take  on  right  brains  and  left  brains ,  however ,  disturbing .    he  is  not  a  medical  expert .    that 's  what  he  have  heard  or  read ,  not  from  his  firsthand  experiences  or  lab  testings .    this  is  supposed  to  be  a  book  on  business ,  not  on  fortunetelling  or  zodiacs .
   mr  amano  claims  that  the  usa  is  a  country  with  diversity  and  the  japanese  should  appreciate ,  respect  and  follow  her  steps .    to  me ,  it 's  too  much  of  imperialism  and  colonialism .    american  companies ,  big  or  venture  capital ,  list  their  stocks  in  the  market .    how  diverse .    in  a  respect ,  japan  is  much  more  diverse  business  ground  with  a  high -profile  but  stock -unlisted  company  like  suntory .    if  mr  amano  truly  believes  the  usa  is  a  diverse  country ,  he  needs  to  explain  why  we  find  same  fast  food  restaurants  over  and  over  along  the  interstate  routes .
   he  tells  the  japanese  to  be  " true  leaders ."    fine .    i  agree ,  but  japan  is  a  country  where  you  find  an  organization  like  keidanren  to  be  friends  with  the  government  regulators .    i  believe  mr  amano  should  be  more  responsible  and  logical  in  his  argument ,  if  he  really  believes  and  encourages  his  japanese  readers  to  be  " true  leaders ." 
  in  a  chapter  on  his  " single  task "  argument ,  his  complaint  against  japanese  business  people  going  back  and  forth  between  agenda  items  during  a  meeting  is  true .    if  he  really  respects  diversity ,  however ,  he  should  not  ask  only  japanese  to  be  complaint  with  their  american  and  international  counterparts .    it  is  puzzling  to  read  a  book  by  a  japanese  author  telling  his  japanese  readers  that  they  are  not  good  enough  because  they  don 't  behave  like  americans .    of  course ,  as  a  business  consultant ,  he  knows  the  way  to  make  his  american  and  japanese  clients  to  form  a  pseudo  understanding  and  agreement  for  contract  signing .
   i  still  wonder  if  he  wanted  to  deliver  a  discourse  or  sales  pitch  in  this  book . ||| japanese-american citizens should be subjected to ? the advice has been incorporated from the episodes and talk about what a lot of experience in the field of business , and i think fit into the category of good books , the young people may have useful information . `` busy '' and misunderstood by a snap decision , but i think that 's right , but not a brain specialist `` right brain '' `` left brain '' to avoid what is asserted about the subtle , but they can with what they have blood character analysis the fence to see if i think of paper . americans say that diversity , interstate ( highway ) . what makes it so diverse country like the same fast food restaurants are lined up in and where you get off the land ? ipos than in countries with large corporations and venture , you might actually say some parts of japan there are many more non-listed companies such as suntory famous ? japanese also `` a true leader '' comes to the passion of the author wants to show the respect that said , there are institutions and organizations such as keidanren press club better or worse , japan will seek to work with regulatory agencies so if they claim to know the business world , and it is more logical to expand the methodology and logic was a little more responsible , no matter what it persuasive . part of a single task , such as behavioral difficulties over a lack of concentration and forth during the meeting agenda , but most japanese people , if you respect the diversity of the united states , a foreigner what acts should be condemned and should seek the same behavioral patterns of japanese and americans will not do ? japan is `` hanging '' is culture . participants noted the comments at a press conference after press conference `` about the real intentions are ? '' and asks the japanese people . between japanese and western people and such , there is a difference between preaching and business sense , but there is something valuable , and what we all understand the japanese can not speak english , that is unreasonable or not this will ? impossible and knowing , we have to approach quasi-contract clients understand the americans and japanese in japanese dare say such things are really konsarutantorashii . ( there is also a major advertising agency approaches one . ) this book for the japanese readers titled `` work techniques to make yourself globalized '' comes with stories and advice from the author masaharu `` hal '' amano . it is not a bad book at all . in fact , i believe it is a useful and insightful book for young japanese business people . i really do find it true when he talks about an episode between a japanese executive visiting the usa to meet his counterpart at a us company only to generate miscommunication because he used the word `` busy '' to express his gratitude , which was incomprehensible for the american executive . same for his argument that we 'd be better off by making snap decisions . i find his take on right brains and left brains , however , disturbing . he is not a medical expert . that 's what he have heard or read , not from his firsthand experiences or lab testings . this is supposed to be a book on business , not on fortunetelling or zodiacs . mr amano claims that the usa is a country with diversity and the japanese should appreciate , respect and follow her steps . to me , it 's too much of imperialism and colonialism . american companies , big or venture capital , list their stocks in the market . how diverse . in a respect , japan is much more diverse business ground with a high-profile but stock-unlisted company like suntory . if mr amano truly believes the usa is a diverse country , he needs to explain why we find same fast food restaurants over and over along the interstate routes . he tells the japanese to be `` true leaders . '' fine . i agree , but japan is a country where you find an organization like keidanren to be friends with the government regulators . i believe mr amano should be more responsible and logical in his argument , if he really believes and encourages his japanese readers to be `` true leaders . '' in a chapter on his `` single task '' argument , his complaint against japanese business people going back and forth between agenda items during a meeting is tru