violates the false claims act wow . i was shocked . legitimate statements of liberal christianity include ones like , 'transubstantiation is mistaken ' , 'the vatican does not have a direct pipeline to god ' , 'homosexuality is not a sin ' , 'condoms and birth control are morally defensible ' , not 'jesus never performed miracles ' , 'the trinity does not exist ' , 'jesus is not the son of god . ' it is disingenuous for spong to assert he is a christian when he disavows all the major tenets of the religion - virgin birth , miracles , incarnation , atonement , resurrection , ascension , the trinity , and the deity of jesus . he believes less in a religion per se and more in a code of ethical conduct like , say , confucianism , and the `` patronizing nonsense '' ( a la c.s . lewis ) that jesus was simply a great moral teacher . he even says on page 229 , `` ... a religionless christianity must be born . '' religionless christianty ? ! that 's a contradiction in terms . mr. spong sounds like an ethicist , not a religionist . he also owes saint paul an apology for rumor-mongering when the man has long been absent and not around to defend himself . i do admit though , i liked a lot his discourse on the plight of women and mens ' subconscious fear of them . i also liked his observations on homosexuality . what he had to say about judas was also interesting ( but misleading as it is based solely on his own suppositions , not evidence ) . the section on anti-semitism was informative but that whole subject has always struck me as odd to begin with , i.e. , that a christian could hate or resent a jew . very odd . i 'm sure we 've all noticed that bible-interpetation discussions are on the same road as capital punishment , birth control , gun control , and abortion : i 'm right and you 're wrong avenue . especially with bible interpretation , words and phraseology are open to diverse translations , and theologians themselves disagree . oh , and here 's my two cents on the council of nicea . of course the christian theologians had to discuss christian doctrine and record it for posterity . of course christianity had to be , dare i say , 'corporatized ' in a way . how can the word spread without an efficient distribution channel ? the remarkable thing is that it did not happen much sooner . you see now , though , how it is very easy for anyone with an advanced intellect ( such as spong ) to take the very ( true ) words i have just said in this paragraph and make it sound convincingly like , `` you see ! ..he admits it..corporatized ! ..distribution channels ! ..surely there was wheeling and dealing ... these people were not serious ... blah blah blah . '' i offer one piece of advice . however , i admit i base this advice on my belief that : 1 ) an all-loving god exists , 2 ) the gospels are historically accurate , 3 ) jesus is the incarnated son of god and 4 ) the bible is divinely inspired . whenever a bible passage irks you , enrages you , or just generally creates any type of irritation in you , remember that you are the one thinking about it . and you 're not god .