tongue tied deaver 's skill at weaving a crafty and intriguing suspense story is sound . he has the bare bones of the work down to a science , and when it comes to most of his tales , the bones themselves are strong , hearty , and glistening white . in this case , however , those bones have virtually no muscle . this tale is about tate collier , his ex , bett , and their kidnapped child , megan . the villian for this tale , a slick-tongued psychiatrist named aaron matthews , is a man of such skill that he can talk virtually anyone into anything , a talent that rivals that of our protagonist , tate , a lawyer who once wielded the same verbal weapons in the courtroom . as i said , the story itself has some intriguing twists and turns , as all suspense tales should , and it offers up satisfying obstacles and the usual mysteries , but they fall flat for a number of reasons . 1 . when the crux of your tale lies on creating characters of uncanny persuasive abilities , the heart of your novel must lie within the dialogue those characters utilize . in this case , neither matthews or collier ever speak convincingly enough , in my opinion , to warrant their being labelled as men who `` speak in tongues . '' and although a lot of interpretation must be allowed for the written medium , it still does n't seem like matthews ' talent for conniving others is as plausible as the novel would like it to be . 2 . the book falls prey to a pretty major pitfall for literature of this type , and that is over-elaborate explanations for key motives and behavoirs . we even get treated to a cliched moment of having the bad guy reveal his whole plot to the good guys before actually going through with the plot . 3 . implausibility . there are some areas of the book that are downright laughable , aside from the already mentioned superhuman talent at persuasiveness some of the characters possess . 4 . my biggest pet peeve : deaver can not write dialogue for teenagers . in an attempt at creating authenticity , deaver peppers their dialogue with an abundance of `` like '' s and `` way lame '' s so that they sound like rejects from some b-grade rip-off of a dazed and confused remake . i understand that kids still occasionally talk like this , but deaver 's use of these trite bits of characterization is so liberal it becomes intrusive and annoying and ludicrous . if you want to try deaver , check out the devil 's teardrop or the bone collector . this is not worth the effort