keynes ' disorganized critique of the versailles treaty this book achieved instant fame when it was published in 1919 , not only for its scathing criticism of the versailles treaty but also for its personal attacks against leading signatories ( especially clemenceau and wilson ) . for a book focused primarily on economic concerns , the text is surprisingly easy to read . however , the book 's poor organization vitally detracts from its effectiveness . the principle reason the book is still famous today lies in the fact that it was written by none other than john maynard keynes , the founder of 20th century style , gov't & debt driven economics . the book is organized into chapters on pre-war europe , allied statesmen , summary of key treaty points , reparations , post-war europe predictions , and keynes ' suggestion of remedies to provide a practical treaty settlement . unfortunately , within each chapter things are jumbled together without clear rhyme or reason . ( is this indicative of keynes ' own personal organization and logical thinking ? ) within the book , he makes a very practical ( but politically infeasible ) argument for a non-vindictive treaty . he basically suggests that the allies should forget both about reparations and repayment of wartime debts from the other allies , and instead they should settle ( though not ideally ) for frontier adjustments and confiscation of only german gov't property . ( did the german gov't sponsor keynes ' work in writing this book ? ) keynes argues that a crushing reparations burden on the german people would disincent them to produce anything beyond a mere subsistence minimum and discourage entrepreneurial enterprise . there is some logic in this point ; however , later on he goes on to state that the us should forgive its $ 10 billion debt to its wartime allies ( $ 5 billion of which was owed by the uk ) . forgive me if i 'm wrong , but does n't such a move disincent american entreprises from entrepreneurship as well . it 's extremely hypocritical that the allied gov'ts desperately sought loans from the us during the war and then once it was over to claim that they could n't pay them . if they did n't want to repay , then they should n't have borrowed the money - period . ( if i borrow money to buy a home , the bank wo n't ever agree to forgive my debt - regardless of whether i 'm out of work , injured , or the house burns down . i do n't see why gov'ts should get any exceptional treatment . ) notwithstanding his problems with disorganization and inconsistent logic , keynes does produce a reasonable , brief list of treaty rememdies , especially in his efforts to restore economic life throughout central and eastern europe . not until the advent of the cold war and the interests of extending american political influence would keynes ' policies largely succeed ( albeit yet again to the detriment of american taxpayers ) . overall , i felt the book was ok . i would only recommend it if you have an interest in reading all of keynes ' work . do n't expect to find any theoretical economic insights in the book , though . based on the high ratings on this page , i think the other reviewers here might have some pro-keynesian bias