self deception those looking for a wife in russia , here is word of advise to you . i know many man who went to russia and ukraine looking for woman . few of them have a happy marriage . most ( i did n't said all ) men go there to find woman will not have a good marriage for several reasons , 1 . some men are pigs and going to find a woman in other country is an escape . they should change the way they treat woman . i know many russian woman who had to flee from their american husbands . 2 . some american man will be deceived by russian woman and think they getting into lasting relationships while woman want to get to us to get a permanent residency . especially when age difference is more that 10 years . why younger woman would mary much older man ? money and opportiunity most of the time . i know christian man who was looking for a bride in post ussr country . he was in his 50 's . very religious man . but when it came to relationships , he is looking at 20- 30 year old woman . they ( women ) were disgusted just to think of being with him . the are other guys who went to russia . they were sitting on a curb in front of university . they were n't shaved and did n't look appealing . they would pick a beatifull young girl and would try to start conversation . young ladies would n't even pay attention . then old drunk lady came by and start talking to these american guys . and that 's who would entertain these men . russians do n't sit on a flor and only drunkards sit on a curb . i think anybody who says that russian woman better than american has never digged deep in the u.s.a . there are also many russian woman who stuck up . how will you , comming from a different country will find out what is gold and what is not ? go there , learn the culture , language , live there for 10 years and then you might be qualified to mary russian lady . i 'm sick of a man who goes to other countries for the purpose of marying someone just because they see problem with woman in their own country . these man has a problem that they need to deal with before they can have any relationships . they need therapy , counceling , they are bossy and they are the ones who stuck up . they need to learn how jesus treats the church and even died for it . will you give up your live for the one you love ? or you only interested to satisfy your selfish desires