a very bad reason to kill trees ok , first of all , read that ttle again . do n't you love how idiotic grown ups sounds when they try to , like , borrow the vernacular twists of their offspring for ironic employment in a , like , polemical setting ? reminds me of cusack 's dad in 'better off dead , ' the way he keeps trying to talk to his son on his son 's level . there 's so much bad faith and pretension permeating this book- it 's all there in the title ... as for the ' author 's `` polemic , '' it basically consits of numerous , misinformed , tendentious tracts soldered together into a rusty heap . you 've heard this spiel before , most likely from your grandparents or parents who just do n't get it- that they had their time . this is our era . our use of language reflects and underlines our differences from those who came before . i particularly did n't like his seeming dismissal/blanket statement on hip hop . he really ai n't down with the brothas , which is not surprising , given that he 's a black intellectual , and there 's nothing established black academics like more than a long-winded , whingeing harangue about the endemic evils of hip hop kulture . ugh . he does n't even seem to possess much of a knowledge of hip hop artists or their work ... nada ... there is much that i find execrable in said culture and in it 's major 'artists ' but still how can one overlook its myriad unifying and artistic elements ... even i manage not to fall prey to an all-too-easy reductionist formula , which seems to be the the main point here- the author views the degredation of the english language through the lens of pop culture at large ( as a bad thing , mind you ) , it begins in the evil counterculture 60 's and ... you know ... digressive , ranting out-of-context mixed with counter-intuitive psuedo-linguistic gibberish . for example , the author holds up both dylan and tom waits as examples of artists who are reverred not for their songwriting abilities , but more for their authenticity , thir 'genuineness ' . this is plain false . laughably false . i 've never met a fan of either artist who was n't struck by their strange and completely idiosyncratic use of language . moreover , the author seems to feel that pop culture music is driven by whites emulating blacks . true , up to a point . i love this stance , and from chuck berry to james brown to miles davis to funkadelic to fishbone to bad brains , to the innumerable black influences on the clash , i will never tire of pointing out that , basically , it 's all black music . one would think that , at least on some level , this is a good thing ... but no , it leads back to the counter-kulture ( with a k ) ideals that have subverted language ... ? ? ? ? huh ? the saddest thing is that , as a reactionary elitist , i 'm inclined to agree with many of the author 's basic points . but both his presentation and his defense of his points were so hare-brained and wrong , i just felt sullied . with friends like these ...