you would think our own would know the score . no one with a true understanding of billie holiday would consider her a blues singer . as such to truly study blues legacies , it would be better if a blues singer like memphis minnie , one of the greatest female instrumental blues singers , were included . surely , dinah washington , justifiably named the queen of the blues , or ruth brown , ( miss or maybe now ms rhythm ) would be more appropriate to a study of black blues women . this hints that the generalizations in this book may be the result of pushing around reality rather than studying it . this is an all too frequent problem in the writing of academics who seem more concerned about creating their own little niche of analysis , than situating their work in the realities of life , culture , and art where the blues or jazz , and billie 's real life live . billie did not like to be called a blues singer . if we are concerned with the voices of black women , then someone involved in this book should have at least had the respect to listen to billie holiday 's voice on the matter . she considered herself a jazz singer and later a cabaret singer . she recorded very few blues . the two blues she recorded again and again `` billie 's blues '' and `` fine and mellow '' were only recorded because in two different recording sessions there was time to record additional songs , but no preparation or charts existed for any song , so an easy to play blues was selected . billie recorded them and performed these two tunes often because she had the author 's credit and publishing on them which made it easier and more profitable . this is despite the fact that the exact word sets had been sung and recorded by real blues singers before billie had the brains to record and copyright them . listen to helen humes sing an exact version of fine and mellow with another name during the first spirituals to swing concert that took place before billie recorded her version . a good contrast with billie , though male , was her friend and often colleague jimmie rushing who served with her in the basie band . despite his penchant for claiming he was a ballad singer as well -- rushing actually thought that when billie left basie that rather than hiring another singer , he alone could fill the gap -- rushing 's recordings with walter page 's blue devils in the 1920s , with moten in the early 1930s , and with basie in the 1930s and 1940s are masterpieces of the blues . many of his renditions like good morning blues have become standards for blusicians of all stripes . lesser known but deserving more attention are his great blues recorded with kc musicians for john hammond on vanguard in the 1960s . otherwise she recorded few blues , particularly in her most artistically developed period between 1934 and 1945 . indeed , billie 's lack of a blues repertoire and disinclination to perform blues cost her her position as female vocalist with the count basie orchestra , a match made in heaven . while there were no doubt other factors involved , many basieites especially buck clayton who was quite close to billy have said billie was replaced because she did n't perform enough blues to suit john hammond who acted as de facto manager and ar man with the basie band . hammond replaced billie holiday with helen humes who had been recording blues for ten years before she joined basie . humes , of course , continued to record blues with basie , and then as an independent singer from then until her death keeping her magnificent jump blues alive for several generations of listeners . clayton 's complaint is a standard one leveled at white jazz producers like hammond and norman grantz that they wanted blues , not more harmonically developed music that black jazz musicians really wanted to play . the blues is a specific genre of african american musical , poetic , and cultural expression with its own distinct history , evolution , and practices . simply collapsing every black performer into the blues makes the blues meaningless and demeans the work of the millions of women and men who have created the blues in the last 110-120 years . another insult to billie , is the tendency to see her as a `` blues figure '' because of her `` tragic '' life . this is the tendency to evaluate billie as the public life disaster that she tended to milk in desperation in the last years of her life symbolized by the fake autobiography _lady sings the blues_ . this contrasts than the artistic consideration she deserved and received from other musicians and singers . she was a competent and practicing jazz artist , raised in the music business ( her father complained he played guitar for every jazz artist in nyc in the 1930s and early 1940s but billie . her mother boarded musicians and catered musical parties ) . from a young age , billie was considered as knowledgeable as the top instrumentalists of the music by those top instrumentalists . those who rely on the `` tragedy '' to induct billie into the blues express a greater ignorance given that as her own drug addiction advanced , her music had less and less of a connection with the blues , climaxing in `` the lady in satin '' which is a vain attempt to take the lady into non-jazz pop . all of her original blues were recorded in her pre-heroin youth in the 1930s , not in the 1950s when billie 's self-made `` tragedy '' had begun to destroy her voice and musicial viability and then her life . it is quite bizarre for anyone to claim billie 's performance of meeropol 's song `` strange fruit , '' has any relationship to blues music given her very straight reading of the tune , the unblueslike straight minor it is given , and the unjazzlike accompaniment . if one wants to see what a blues singer can do to this song , one needs to listen to the astounding version recorded by josh white which is blusey and also more dramatic and satisfying than holiday 's more celebrated version . holiday 's performance of `` strange fruit , '' tends to be elevated by folks for the justifiable political message the song provided and the controversy involved . however , an honest or even rational evaluation of the performance seems to be unavailable these days . this raises yet another ignorance , the outsider 's view that `` the blues '' is always sad or `` tragic . '' the immense body of the most popular blusicians -- that is blues artists that black people listened to -- of the 1930s like memphis minnie , tampa red , and leroy carr served up a bunch of pretty happy , often double entendre , blues . blues music was overwhelmingly dance music , with performers not playing the three minute blues contemporary white blues wannabe 's deduce from recordings , but 10 to even 30 minute versions of their songs for dancers from juke joints to the big ballrooms . unfortunately , people who have never studied the blues as a real genre , misplace it as the solo moaning of the `` existential negro , '' rather than the jumping music of a century of african american saturday nights . as an african american performer of the blues and other black traditional musics as well as a scholar of african american music tradition , this kind of non scientific , non-traditional , grab bag sloppiness about our music and our culture is a sign that even among our own , the outsider 's false generalizations about the blues reign . you would think our own would know the score .