another great indian con being lapped up by the world ... let me start by explaining the title of my review : being an indian ( settled in india , not outside ) i am incessantly perplexed by the plethora or completely rubbish books from india which the west just ca n't seem to get enough of . books which say nothing about india , and are not about it . just books set in india , which throw in some curry and some local language , and somehow thus make people fall all over themselves in an attempt to praise the book . my gut revolts against such partisanship , and this is one of those books which is a perfect example of this rubbish trend , and hence is going to get such deserving treatment at my hands . but let me start by going back a bit in time and giving credit where it 's due : after reading his first two books , i came to the very early conclusion that vikram chandra was the narrator 's narrator , a storyteller of uncommon brilliance , a weaver of magic tales . on the flip side , like most other chandra fans , i too was frustrated by his ability to end every one of his stories in the worst all of all possible ways ; but i loved his craft nonetheless . i had almost convinced myself that with his next book , i 'd stop about 10 % before the end of the book , and with sacred games , that promise turned out to be very easy to fulfill - i managed to put the book down without dying of guilt about halfway through itself . sacred games is a book about nothing : there are no characters who feel real , it is not about the protagonists ' environment , it does n't rotate around or shed new light on any events , and it does n't deal with any objects of fascination . nothing . nil . zilch . nada . a lot of people have talked about this as another of the , if not the definitive bombay book , but having lived there myself , i can vouch for the fact that this book does n't even begin to capture an iota of the character or the essence of bombay . ( if you really want to read about the city , read `` shantaram '' - now that 's a book ! ) in fact , i think one of the lowest points of the book is how it fails to create any context - the events of this book could almost have happened anywhere , at almost any point in time . ( and no , that does not make it timeless - just outright insipid . ) simple mechanisms like linkages to some real-life events would have given the reader something to hold on to - but no , mr. chandra refuses to give any straws to the drowning . reviewers have gone ga-ga over it 's portrayal of the bombay mafia , but there is nothing said here which is even remotely new , and there is n't the slightest different twist to it . dons , corrupt policemen , actors , dancing girls , slums , and smuggling - everything has been told , and told much better . a stunningly stupid highlight of this book is the copious usage of local language without any glossary to help the readers understand what the terms mean . i have almost been a local there , and though i understood most of the local or slang language , there were terms which bewildered even me . i understand that mr. chandra believes that this deliberate omission of explanations draws you into the story , but when there are 10 or more such words per page , it will leave a lot of readers more irritated than intrigued . overall , i would strongly recommend avoiding this book . the indians because there is nothing here that you do n't know or ca n't read about in a better written book , and the rest because this is not about india -it 's just a forced nowhere story . save your money and your time . go buy or read something else .