sinks like a stone , stinks like a monkey this is the first book by deaver that i have read . apparently there are a couple of prequels to this novel involving the same main characters -- i will never read them . deaver has adequate style and a talent for pacing a mystery thriller . he also has some skill in character development ; however , he only applies this skill to the secondary characters in this story . perhaps the main characters in this story appeared so flat to me because i have not read the other novels in this series , but judging by their inconsistent behavior , bizarre motivations , and the melodramatic dialogue in this novel i doubt the other books could be much better . worse than deaver 's hackneyed mystery cut-out-characters is his insistence that the reader be willing to accept the most unbelievable and unlikely situations for the sake of a dramatic situation or plot twist . like many other second-drawer mystery writers , deaver portrays such notable organizations as the fbi , ins , us coast guard , and the nypd as ridiculously inept and corruptible . nor has he made any attempt to research the actual policies and procedures that these organizations would follow in the situations presented in the story . deaver also has a poor grasp on the politics of international economics . this is normally excusable in a mystery writer , but since deaver sets chinese/american economics as the foundation of his final plot twist the whole story comes crashing down in the final chapters of the novel . a note to deaver and other mystery writers : it is not a requirement for a great detective to be a pompous jerk and an abrasive know-it-all . it has been 115 years since doyle introduced the world to sherlock holmes , and we have had 115 years of mediocre mystery writers plagiarizing doyle 's character . please try to be original . and also , if the final `` twist '' in your story is so complicated and so unbelievable that you must expend two chapters in trying to explain it , perhaps it should n't be there in the first place . i give this book a d .