great problem identifier , horrid advice this book is great for identifying problems that may be affecting you , it defines each problem very clearly , and there is a test in the beginning to help you figure out which problem areas are at the top of the list . it even gives examples of how these problem areas affect certain situations to clarify . the problem with this book is the advice . a lot of it is very simple , and winds up contradicting itself . some of it is not even helpful or good advice . take for example the idea that one should ignore insults , in the chapter about personalizing . it states that if you do n't consistently ignore someone who is insulting you , it 's called 'letting it get to you ' . however , it 's actually called 'letting someone walk all over you ' and a better book would advise you to learn to be assertive and tell the person to stop , the first time , and if the person does n't stop , to leave . also , at the end of the chapter , is a real problem as well . he writes a scenario with a mother who made homemade salad dressing and her son does n't like it . he then makes it sound as though it is okay for you to sit there and silently demean your own son in your head because of his personal tastes , saying stuff to yourself like he has an inability to appreciate good food , and that he is not the ultimate world judge of salad dressing worthiness ( whilst true , this would imply the mother would think that she is the ultimate world judge and is being quietly condescending ) , and that if she serves him bottled salad dressing next time and he complains , she can explain the error ( in this case his personal tastes are considered wrong ) of his ways . this right here is an extremely poor model of appropriate thought behavior ! obviously the mother in the example is a bit of a narcissist and harmfully not allowing her son to have his own personal tastes without criticism . things like this are why i refuse to give this book any review that makes it sound great . so definitely take this book with a heaping pile of salt . please do n't let it be your self-help bible . there are other ways of acting that would be much much better than the advice given in this book .