a constant chore i 'd been hearing about the wonderful writing of john le carre for quite some time , so i picked up the constant gardener for a fun read . . . and it was anything but . and while i do n't know if this is typical of the lecarre spy novels , i certainly hope not . the plot is basically a single man versus international conspiracy . it 's a plot that would normally catch my attention early and have my sympathy from the start . further , it 's a commentary on the abuses of power wrought by corporations ( in this case , pharmaceutical ) that are more powerful than governments . again , a device that immediately evokes common interests with me , an unabashed liberal . unfortunately that 's where the book and i part ways . justin , the minor diplomat in nairobi is thrown into an unfortunate series of discoveries when questioning the circumstances of his wife 's rape and murder . tessa differed from justin in that she was engaged in pursuing change in the world as a human rights activist , while he was content to follow orders , but say and believe the right things sans effort . this , i believe is the theme of the work , that culpability lies mostly with inaction and that movements can overcome abuses of power . good theme , but . . . the execution was poor . pages and pages devoted to characterization fell short when actions did n't meet the set-up . as well , justin 's investigation took him around the world to look at a paper trail , not the most interesting tools of the thriller game . but we , as well as the character , examined the words and trail meticulously to the point where it became a joke how quickly the volume would put me to sleep . justin is such a luddite that we , as the reader , are forced to learn about computers , emails , and the myriad electronic communication pathways along with the protagonist . . . lecarre would have been well-suited to find a heartless editor , because the plot that does exist is not much more substantial than what a novella would handle nicely . bureaucracy can be handled in a paragraph where the author wants the reader as frustrated as his bureaucrat protagonist , an interesting irony done uninterestingly . this is n't to say that lecarre is a poor writer - his sentence construction is strong and his mastery of the craft evident . i 'm going to try another of his novels just because i believe this was an aberration caused by an author with an axe to grind and no right way to do it . another problem was that he telegraphed the plot . the only one stupid enough not to see who was behind the murder and conspiracy was justin himself . while this can work , showing the reader what the protagonist ca n't see ( see fight club ) , in this case it 's just painful to have to slough through the machinations of bumbling intrigue with a dull and plodding man . in summary , i did n't care about characters and i lost interest in the plot and the theme seemed contrived . i ca n't recommend it . - cv ric