overblown and messy while julia barrett touches on the language `` spoken '' in jane austen 's novels , it 's not expressed with any feeling or wit . the words seem to be a jumble of austenique words placed to look good , but not sound good . after chapter 11 the book goes into a million different directions , is narrated from several characters points of view , leaves almost no room for the main characters ( charlotte heywood ) views to be expressed , her feelings to be voiced and is just plain messy . in most of austen 's novels , you have an opportunity to see the relationship grow between the main charactor and her `` intended '' . in charlotte , you wonder how they fell in love at all . they rarely see one another , they rarely speak and when they do , it 's mostly short and nonsensible . then there is the plot line , or rather shall i say lines for there are several ( thank you mr. collins ) . there is the plot to save sandition by gaining a physician , by adding a crescent , allowing racing gentleman and their horses ( and then the sub-plot to this to keep them out ) and then the smuggling and bootlegging . dear me ! how did anything get done ? i confess , i got bored and just scanned the rest of the book ! honestly , i was disgusted . if you love austen 's last novel and would like to see how she may have ended it , let me recommend a book far superior to charlotte . instead try sandition . sandition does tend to get a little flowery in some places . charlotte heywood does tend to get a little flustered and unable to speak her mind around sidney parker . however on the whole , it 's a much more convincing end to austen 's last attempt . the characters actually grow . they learn . here is an example . in charlotte : arthur parker is an `` invalid '' who learns that perhaps he is not so invalid and then spends the rest of the book remarking to his intended , also thinking herself an invalid , about how herorically he withstands his difficulties with stomach ailments . to which she agrees and says that they only can know how much each endurs to live with this horrid desease . and then they proceed to expound on how proud they are over their problems and attempt to live with them . ( sigh ) . in sandition : arthur parker is an `` invalid '' who realizes that perhaps , not only is he not an invalid but that there are people fairing far worse then him and do not complain . he falls for a young woman who truly is fragile but makes no complaints , only attempts to live each good day she has to the fullest . he learns from her what it is to be healthy . they both grow and support each other in a common goal that gets them out of a smoke filled tea room and into the fresh sea breezes . he collects and she draws what he collects . he learns to protect her ( instead of whining over his bouts and supposed illnesses ) and she learns to be stronger . sandition is also a book in which you can actually see charlotte and sidney fall in love . you can watch her struggle over `` does he or does he not '' . it 's a much more delightful alternative to all the `` our herione '' and `` our hero '' and `` my herione '' and `` my hero '' 's that go on in charlotte ( if i read one more of those i thought i would choke ) . so , to sum up ? do n't do n't do n't waste your time , money or energy on charlotte , but do get sandition . it 's a welcome addition to jane austen 's library