i 've give it no stars if i could certainly it is not to my dismay that this will be the author 's last edition . her information is all right in many ways , but useless in most . if you want drug store quality cosmetics , you can find useful ones , some very good ones . if you want very good quality cosmetics , more often you will pay for the increased quality . ms. begoun says in the intro to this ( hopefully ) final edition , that she was hired by a mall in silver spring years ago . since i grew up in the silver spring area and still live nearby , i 'd love to know what mall she 's referring to . years ago there were no malls in silver spring . a few shopping centers , but no malls . she says she had acne and saw that toners did n't close pores , etc . she 's right in many ways , but she 's way off in so many other ways her book is a mish-mash of misinformation mixed in with some basic common sense that anyone can figure out on her own . if you want the very best cosmetics , you will have to patronize high-end stores like nordstrom , saks fifth avenue , neiman marcus , etc . the professionals there will help you find what is best for your skin . it may take time , but all depends on what you want . ms. begoun criticizes some very fine lines of cosmetics . maybe they do n't work for her . when i look through her book , it may be cleverly written , but she does n't really know what she 's talking about . i had `` bad skin '' until i began using the erno laszlo line . i had clogged pores , pimples , dry , scaly patches . after a few months of using laszlo and continuing to now , people i do n't even know comment on how clear and pretty my complexion is . strangers do n't comment on someone 's skin for nothing . when i see ms. begoun 's book , i always turn to the section where she rips the erno laszlo line of cosmetics . this edition , she omits what she has written in the past , that laszlo customers are extremely loyal and swear by the product . there is a reason laszlo customers are loyal . it works better than any other line out there if you want your skin to look excellent throughout your life . i have used erno laszlo for almost 32 years and no one ever believes that i am 53 years old . of course i do n't look 20 ! but my skin is smooth , the occasional dark `` age spot '' that appears fades within a few weeks of using laszlo 's wonderful `` no . 3-9 '' . my husband is 47 , looks younger than 47 , and still everyone thinks he is older than me . my lipline is smooth , lipstick has no vertical lines to bleed into when i wear lipstick , which is daily . ms. begoun in this edition of the book says that erno laszlo could not have known about exfoliation or the dangers of rinsing with hot , hot water ( part of his system requires 30 rinses of hot water twice a day ) , but that rinsing does exfoliate and i have no tiny spider veins on my face that she claims hot water can cause . my cheeks are smooth and while gravity is taking its toll ( laszlo works , but gravity is a very powerful force and i do n't expect to look 40 when i 'm 70 ! ) she rips other up-scale cosmetic lines but i think that 's because she has a conflict of interest . is she selling her own products ? i know previous editions promoted her own line of cosmetics , i did n't bother to find out if she 's still doing so . erno laszlo had as his clients years ago movie stars such as marilyn monroe , gloria swanson , greta garbo and joan crawford - you can read in `` mommy dearest '' how crawford 's daughter thought her mother was obsessive in the way she rinsed her face repeatedly each morning and evening ! the reason erno laszlo had these clients is because his system works . it 's not cheap , it 's very expensive , but it works . most definitely , it works . last week , i was `` carded '' ! quite a compliment for a someone who 's been a mom for over 32 years