oh danny boy ... first off , i love dan rather . he 's a wonderful , passionate man whom i love to watch on the news . the problem is , he 's not a writer . not a very good one at least . this book is a noble attempt , but there is just so much that 's wrong with it . for one thing , there is just some bad writing in it . it has a lot of errors in fact and a lot of typos . among others , he writes that texas a & m university ( rather than texas tech ) is in lubbock , and he says that ryne sandberg in in the baseball hall of fame ( he just should be soon ) . there is also bad grammar ( this is beyond the texas colloquialisms in the book which i think are fine-i 'm a texan myself ) . these are fairly small problems , but they are oftly annoying , and they are not good signs in a book written by a journalist who 's supposed to report facts . furthermore , he just has few narrative talents , at least not those required for a book . he tells the stories as a journalist on headline news would -- concise , to the point , and without much flavor . they 're just there ; the reader is rarely drawn in . the most glaring flaw , though , is that there are a lot of flaws in logic in the book . for instance , one of the stories is about a ten-year-old boy who realizes that many of the underpriveleged at his school can not afford school supplies , so he works together an organization that collects and disperses those needed supplies . this is all obviously a good thing . but then , rather relates a joke told by the boy 's mother who said she needed to haul the school supplies around so she `` traded in [ her ] lexus for a durango , and now [ she 's ] getting a yukon because the durango is n't big enough . '' my problem is the huge contrast here . on one hand , there are all of these kids lacking necessities and the heroes who are helping them are laughing about purchasing one expensive suv after another for themselves . how is this inequality emblematic of the american dream ? how does this book manage to lament the rising poverty rates and terrible living conditions and still manage to promote excessive materialism ? there are some people in the book who are praised for having overcome hardship to make millions ( some of them stepping on other people 's heads to do so ) and others who are praised for having given up millions to help those in need . frankly , these two `` ideals '' do n't go together . nevertheless , these people , according to rather , have all attained the american dream . there are a lot of contradicting ideas expressed in these stories . furthermore , i do n't really think rather has a great concept of what the american dream is . when sister sylvia schmidt founds a homeless shelter in tulsa , ok , i do n't think she is following the american dream . i think she 's following dreams that go far beyond the american dream , and i think she 's rejecting the prevalent , primarily materialistic , concept of the american dream of today 's society . i 'm giving the book two stars because i like dan rather , and because some of the stories were rather inspiring . neverthess , it 's not a good book . i will continue to watch dan rather on tv , but i 'm quite sure i wo n't read a book by him again