interesting at first , but ... ... upon actual research it is clearly false . many others have delved into the finer points of menzies ' poor methodology and often deliberate exaggeration or falsities , so i wo n't bother . i 'll only list four points that i think stand out even without deep fact checking : 1 ) niccolo di conti , the venetian explorer and crucial link in the book who supposedly sailed with the chinese treasure fleet in 1421 , failed to mention in his memoirs anything about chinese junks or going to the four corners of the world . this seems strange . 2 ) the fleet sailed to virtually every coastline in the world but missed europe entirely , the one place sure to mark their passing for posterity . this is neither evidence nor disproof , merely a sketchy coincidence . 3 ) native americans are given startlingly short shrift , both in the book and in many of the reviews . virtually every time something sophisticated is presented in the ancient new world it is attributed to the chinese , reminding me of the easter island `` mystery '' of who carved those giant heads . for the record , native populations were n't childish savages ; prior to european contact they had very sophisticated civilizations , fully capable of jewelery work , cloth garments , and carving statues . 4 ) lastly , given the vast numbers of chinese sailors involved ( roughly 25-30,000 ) , the presence of domesticated animals such as horses and pigs , and the inevitable presence of huge numbers of stow-away rats , does n't it strike anyone as odd that there were apparently no diseases passed on to the various native populations in the americas ? it only took a very small amount of european contact to spark the largest , and deadliest pandemic in history that raged for nearly two centuries killing unknown millions of native americans . chinese contact of the scale claimed would certainly have had a similar , if not worse , effect . ultimately menzies ' book is entertaining , leaving the reader hoping it is true merely for the fantastic nature of the thesis . in the end , however , the evidence and analysis simply are not there .