sorry , not that great , get the other books i 'm as big a fan of `` the adventures of the mad scientists ' club '' and `` the new adventures of the mad scientists ' club '' as anyone is . i loved those books to death as a kid , and even today , as i re-read the first two books , they 're still as funny and clever as i remember -- my memories are not clouded by nostalgia . i became a scientist ( for real ) because of those two books . however , `` the big ker-plop '' , despite a promising beginning , just is n't as good . it starts out great : it 's wonderful to be with the boys again as they go fishing on a foggy morning in strawberry lake , and somethign big falls from the sky and lands somewhere in the water ... to be back on strawberry lake again with these brainy , energetic boys is terrific , and right away there 's a mystery to solve . the boys enlist the aid of henry mulligan to find the object that fell in the lake , and how they do it -- using some trigonometry and a magnetometer -- is described with scientific accuracy , believeable , clever and entertaining . it 's such a relief to have a plot where problems are solved by something other than harry potter 's wand . but after the boys tell the air force where they found the object , the plot seriously bogs down . for all intents and purposes , the boys are n't really involved in the plot thereafter , except as observers and ( maybe ) engineers . the boys just invent solutions to problems -- and they are clever solutions , described with scientific accuracy . but the air force does all the `` action '' , and the boys just watch them through a telescope as the adults try to retrieve the lost atomic bomb . i understand that it 's realistic that the air force would go after a lost atomic bomb themselves , and would not let any civilians anywhere near the site -- yes , realistic , but it makes for a boring story . it 's not fun anymore when the adults do all the work . the adults are an important part of the story , and the adult characters are all paper-thin cliches ( the good-hearted air force colonel , the hard-bitten reporter , the fat news photographer ) , uninteresting . brinley was a brilliant plotter , able to write plausible real-world stories with clever twists -- but he had a major defect as a writer : he loved to write `` clever '' dialogue full of ripostes and `` witty '' put-downs , which in fact were never clever or funny . the adults do a lot of talking in this book -- whole chapters consist of their dialogue -- and when the idiot mayor of mammoth falls is engaging in `` clever '' repartee with the barber or some other adult , the witticisms are so unfunny , it just makes me wince