awful book on its own for complete beginner i wanted to teach my son to program and chose vb and this book . this book really `` looks '' great but i 'm not impressed by the content . so much so that it compelled me to write my first ever book review . the introduction `` who is this book for ? '' gives a sense that this book can get people into programming . i would be amazed however if anyone not familiar with programming will get past chapter 1 without being frightened by the whole prospect of programming . chapter 1 initially jumps into some microsoft marketing of .net which really adds nothing but confuses the readers by having to deal with line after line of computer jargon . then the chapter gives a horrible overview of object orientation which again does n't help later . i feel the whole book is like the first chapter . does n't give you some of the basics but rambles about more complex stuff you do n't need between some hands on practical stuff . i actually thought the first example was really poor also . i am of the opinion that someone typing something in themselves and seeing it work should be rewarding . the example however was hard for a novice as it had long lines of comments and the line to print the variables was a minefield of quotes and symbols making it pretty likely that a beginner would do a typo . the title of the book is `` build a program now ! '' . this the book does and given how complex setting up an environment it is helpful . but i 've slammed the rating of this book because this could have covered with a lot less pages and maybe substitute some of the drivel with a little about the syntax of vb or even some explanation of the example code . do n't buy this book if you think it will teach you anything about computing or programming . do buy this book if you have some other teaching reference for visual basic and want something that will help you setup your build environment . also comes with a vb express cd so you do n't have to downloaded it .