good only for 007 fans . you will find the ornithologist james bond 's old employer , philadelphia 's academy of natural sciences does not sell copies of this book . they will sell you herbert raffaele 's updated version of this book instead . why ? because , it is at least from the 1930. it contains information which is seriously dated . not to mention that the pictures are mostly in black and white with only about 10 colour plates . the pictures that are contained in the volume are not very representative of the birds you will encounter . this book is acceptable if you intend on bird watching on your caribbean holiday , but we spent much of our time guessing if we were really looking at a bird . yes , you can take a book of eastern us birds with you , but do you want to take a birdwatching library with you on your holiday ? not to mention there are birds which will not show up in a us bird book ( e.g. , bananaquit and parrots ) . you will notice that the most effusive reviews of this book come from fans of ian fleming 's 007 , not bird watchers . that is because this book is much more a piece of 007 trivia than useful to modern bird watchers . the story of how ian fleming 's agent was named was that fleming was at goldeneye , his jamaican house , and needed a name for the protagonist of his spy novel . fleming wanted a plain name and his eye came upon his copy of james bond 's `` birds of the west indies '' , which fleming described as his bible . fleming thought that james bond would be the perfect name for his spy ( no , audobon would not have been a possibility ) . mr. fleming paid the ornithologist a dollar a year for the privilege of using the name james bond in his novels . serious bird watchers are better served buying herbert raffaele 's updated version of this book or james kavanagh 's `` caribbean birds '' . you could also be sentimental and want this because it was what you used when you were young during the period that this version of `` birds of the west indies '' was the only show in town . in case you have n't guessed , i am both a bird watcher and james bond fan who owns two copies of this book . consider this review with that in mind