not worth the $ and frustration i returned to college to further my education this year after working as a high school chemistry and biology teacher for the last 5 years , and your text `` fundamentals of analytical chemistry ( with cd-rom and infotrac ) 8th edition '' is the required text that we are using for my quantitative analysis course . myself and numerous other students in the class have found ourselves completely exasperated with the text for numerous reasons . some of the reasons are as follows : 1 . formulas written incorrectly , while the definition/derivation is written properly right next to it , or vice versa . 2 . incorrect answers to the end of the chapter questions given in the back of the book . 3 . the end of the chapter questions will often have no previous examples shown in the chapter , or in the chapters prior to it . essentially there is no guide or basis to begin a question . 4 . asking for something in a way that is so convoluted that one has no idea what is being asked . 5 . suddenly using or asking for a term that has never been used in the book . such as asking for `` molar solubility '' ... nothing in text as to referred , nothing in the index , and nothing in the glossary . 6 . your solved examples within the chapter are atrocious , in that they are of virtually no use when trying to use them as a guide to the end of the chapter questions . and thank you for skipping/not showing steps or assuming things in the problems when they are shown . these are great given that one comes to consider the questions , did i make an algebraic error in solving ? was the formula given the correct one , and was it even given correctly ? did i do it correctly , and is it just the wrong answer given in the back of the text ? i have taken into consideration that i have been out of school for a while and that i may not be as sharp as i used to as far as some of the more complicated calculations , because i have not had much practice recently , however , when one is trying to learn from a book that makes it so hard to do anything with it , it makes it about as useful as a paperweight , which is about the best use i have for it now . a $ 100+ paperweight . i thought that the mistakes were due to an early edition text , but with a simple view of the front of this book one can readily see that this is the 8th edition ... the eighth edition ! one would think that after writing the same book 8 times , these errors and some general refinements may have taken place ; thank you for the exception to the rule . in all my years of school , i have come across many books , both used to learn from as well as ones to teach from , and i have never found a more poorly done text . we , the students and professor , have created a website solely dedicated to the errors or oddities that we have so far found in the text : needless to say , it continues to grow . i will say that it is nice to see you incorporating excel and other software into the text , which is beneficial in its use in industry and presentation . thought you might want to know ... thanks .