redundant and uninteresting i obtained this book with the hope that it would build on the themes i encountered in another book i 'm reading ( destructive trends in mental health ) . as a practicing experimental psychologist , i have observed first hand the strengths and weaknesses of the field of psychology . unfortunately , mcintyre failed to deliver . first , the book is short on ideas and repeats them often . having biases is bad ( he scapegoats religious and political ideologies ) . social scientists are n't brave enough ( the author seems to idolize galileo and darwin ) . social scientists whine too much ( about how *hard* their science is - my whining is in the next paragraph ) . social scientists need to look at the data instead of relying on armchair theorizing . people do n't really want to understand human behavior . yep , i think that 's about it . now , repeat this in as many ways as possible and you can stretch it into a very short book . the author turns a good word and thus the book is an easy read ( thus the two stars ) . as much as i might agree with some of his points , he overstates them ( he caricatures social scientists as ignorant ideologues uninterested in data ) and misses many important ones regarding the challenges of the field . if i had as much control over humans as physicists and chemists have over their subject matter , things would be a lot easier . so-called `` hard '' scientists do n't have to ask the subjects of their inquiry if they want to participate in their experiments . they also have much greater control of extraneous variables ( can i *please* be allowed to raise humans in the lab ? ? ? can i *please* be allowed to run experiments on societies , governments , races , companies , ... by changing their laws , rules , structures , income , etc . to my hearts content ? ) . the book would have been much less repetitious if he would have seriously considered the other challenges facing the social sciences instead of assuming that they 're all easily surmountable . hint : think weather prediction and you 'll better understand the challenges of the social sciences . the author needs to check his own biases at the door - it 's obvious that he 's a liberal atheist ( as he was free to admit ) . in sum - read the second paragraph of my review and you 've gotten the gist of the author 's message . skip the book .