james joyce : genius or madman ? obviously both and finnegan proves it . joyce spent seventeen years on this book , which can be properly read and understood by only one person - james joyce , who passed away in 1941 . now if you 'd like to devote yourself - and perhaps your life - to achieving an understanding of finnegans wake , you are certainly free to do so . and , having once attempted to achieve such understanding myself , i can assure you that some of your time will be well spent . but the facts are as follows : 1 . joyce was fluent in a number of european languages and had a nodding acquaintance with many more . 2 . from this knowledge he fashioned a special vocabulary of multilingual blends and puns which he used , with ordinary english syntax , to create the solipsistic discourse of finnegans wake . it is , in effect , a private language . 3 . since most of his vocabulary is drawn from , and puns on , the languages joyce was familiar with , the only way one can begin to understand what 's happening is to be as familiar with them as james joyce . 4 . the entire book is said to narrate the mostly incoherent nighttime dream of its antihero , `` hce . '' this was joyce 's way of `` getting at '' ( whatever that means here ) some sort of unconscious european cultural mind - as apprehended and imagined by james joyce , of course . 5 . finnegans wake is thus basically incomprehensible . the explications in campbell & robinson 's skeleton key , while well informed , are , as the authors admit ( though not in these words ) the only sense they could make of it with the assistance of a shelf full of reference books . by getting in on the ground floor , c & w effectively dared anyone to disagree . which would , of course , require another pair of literature ph.d. 's with another shelf of reference books . there can be more than one interpretation of finnegans wake , including a belief in the profitlessness of interpretation . 6 . once in a while joyce can still write a melodious sentence that is close enough to english to carry some meaning . as readers of dubliners , portrait of the artist , and ulysses are aware , joyce was at one time a master of poetic english prose . searching for the poetic moments , and those alone , makes for a pleasant diversion , and will undoubtedly reward the extremely well read and knowledgable . if you 're still intrigued , your best bet is to find a copy of the drastically abridged edition with commentary that anthony burgess put out forty years ago . burgess loved finnegans wake in the campbell-robinson interpretation , and he supplies enough editorial matter to aid you in your innocent quest to believe in finnegans ' greatness . the book may be useful to some as a kind of rorschach/i ching for your own creativity : `` how many puns and themes can *i* find ? '' this book allegedly turned derrida into a deconstructionist . i believe it . students of ocd and associated disorders should take a look at the entire finagin fannomenikonn , if you know what i mean .