hawkins descends into delusion & misuse of dowsing dr. hawkins first book , power vs force was interesting and presented a useful way to dowse using kinesiology . however , he began to venture into misapplication of this method , and has now gone off on a tangent where he seems to wish to delude himself into thinking he has developed a fool-proof way to judge the level of consciousness of any entity , concept , or construct and the truth or falsehood of any statement . there are serious logical , philosophical , and practical flaws in his work , and his attempt to quantify matters that are n't quantifiable leads to meaningless data that probably matches the bias & beliefs of those carrying out the muscle tests . this book is a good example to present to show how people can deceive themselves and misuse muscle testing and dowsing techniques . the actual technique is worthwhile , but much of what hawkins presents in the book is utterly meaningless and invalid . the levels of awareness that can be tapped into with dowsing are wise enough to not let us ask just anything we wish to and be able to receive accurate , valid answers . hawkins explores issues about media , politics , religion , spirituality , history , philosophies , healing arts , entertainment , and more , and reveals his own gross ignorance on many matters . he seems unaware that many of the people he trusts in politics and media are professional gangsters , liars , and two-faced sociopaths . he has a negative view of conspiracy theorists , many of whom are genuinely determined to find the truth and do n't resort to hawkins ' misguided shortcut attempt to identify truth . hawkins also fosters confusion with his description of his muscle test method , as it really has little to do with applied kinesiology , but is a form of dowsing where the muscle is directed to remain weak or strong in lieu of muscle response moving a pendulum or rod . i hope hawkins gets to reconsider his current efforts ... consciousness and spiritual research are vital endeavors and there are others doing useful , responsible work in those areas . for now i 'd encourage hawkins to recognize that 911 was in part an inside job , many conservative politicians and pundits are corrupt frauds , and the overall maturity of consciousness in america is not greater than the rest of the world