bad journalism one of the more interesting topics in this book is the arab-israeli conflict . while there is much more in the book than this portion , i think huband 's treatment of this conflict is so far off that it compromises the entire work . and huband begins the section by quoting an arab who says that although israelis say they want peace , they do not really want it . well , what are we to make of this ? after all , we know that the israelis , good or bad , do want peace and do need peace . they spent the past several decades building up a nation . and they want to keep it . that is one reason they need peace . and that is also a reason why it is easy to tempt them with bogus offers of peace , just like tempting a fish with bait on a hook . but just as fish need food , israelis need peace . huband did n't say that . but we know that israelis really do want peace . we know that if israelis are innocent victims , they want peace . we know that if israelis are guilty thieves , they still want peace , just to keep their illicit gains . what does it mean for huband to imply that israelis do not really want ( or do not really appear to want ) peace ? well such a claim is surely a falsehood . but more than that , it is a taunt . after all , suppose a bully decides to beat you up . and suppose that bully claims you want to fight ! obviously , you may well prefer to be left alone to being beaten up . what the bully is saying is a taunt . it 's more than a mere falsehood . it is a blatant way for bullies to tease their victims . that means that huband 's book is taunting israelis . that 's not a very good thing for a journalist to do . it goes beyond telling mere falsehoods . huband also implies that jews have taken arab land , and admit to it . and that they have taken an arab country ! i wonder which one ? and i also wonder if buying land at high prices constitutes `` taking '' it . after all , we humans are living on the same planet as the one that existed in 1805 . not one human who was alive in 1805 is alive today . have we all stolen the planet from them ? of course not . we have bought it and inherited it . there has been some theft , but that is no reason to invalidate the right of all humans to live on this planet today . huband implies that the arabs ought to have a greater right to steal jewish land than the jews do to own the land they bought at high prices . that 's bad journalism too . and there 's more . the author calls former israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu an `` extremist . '' now , i might understand making some snide remark about former prime minister yitzhak shamir , who after all was a former leader of the stern gang . one might even do the same for former prime minister menachim begin , who was a former leader of the irgun . but netanyahu ? once again , this is poor journalism . and by the way , you might want to see how often the author calls any arabs `` extremists . '' it is true that antisemitic propaganda and incitement in the arab world has reminded many israelis of similar propaganda and incitement in germany in the 1930s . and that has resulted in some analogies being made between arab antisemitism today and german antisemitism before and during world war two . huband makes fun of such analogies . i think he should have taken them seriously . more bad journalism . the author does take benjamin beit-hallahmi seriously , though . huband quotes him to explain that the arabs are `` innocent bystanders , '' and that the jews are visiting revenge on the arabs for european antisemitism ! this is total nonsense , of course . more bad journalism . now , does a `` one-state '' solution to the arab-israeli conflict make sense ? maybe so . israel exists in order to protect jewish rights and to provide a refuge for jews . it exists to provide a state where jews will speak hebrew natively , attend hebrew schools universities , have hebrew traditions , and so forth . it can do all that in a state which has a large non-jewish population . and israel , even with ten thousand square miles , would be rather small for a state which houses over five million jews . if jewish rights to life , liberty , property , and immigration are protected , a one-state solution may be best . besides , while many people say that another arab state is needed as well , i see no real need for one except as a mechanism to attack or destroy israel . the author agrees that a one-state solution is best . and i think he even acknowledges that israel is part of the middle east . but it seems to me that his reason for wanting a one-state solution is to demolish jewish rights rather than support them . and getting rid of human rights would be bad for everyone in the region . this book is a good one to avoid