disingenuous argument larry arnhart is a serious , perceptive ethical philosopher whose works deserve praise ( and to be read ) , but this book is a failure . the arguments are weak and will certainly fail to convince most `` conservatives '' to embrace darwinian evolutionary theory . evolutionary biology is scientifically correct , which is the main reason it must be accepted by anyone , whatever their political philosophy ( arnhart does not stress this ) . however , darwinian biology can be either used or ignored in making political arguments , so i will rephrase the issue as : are there good arguments flowing from evolutionary biology for conservative political philosophy ? we must note that at least in the usa , there are two quite different branches of conservativism , one espousing religious fundamentalism and the other classical economic liberalism . they have almost nothing in common intellectually and are simply politically linked by historical events . arnhart does not stress this point . arnhart 's arguments directed towards religious conservatism can be summarized as : ( a ) evolutionary biology is compatible with belief in god ; ( b ) evolutionary biology recognizes and reinforces the notion that religious belief is a universal element of human nature ; and ( c ) a strong adherence to family values is part of human nature . i agree with these statements , but arnhart never addresses the burning issues , which include abortion , homosexuality , gay marriage , and state-religion separation . he does deal with intelligent design , which he rejects as a scientific theory . this is in part why i call his book `` disingenuous : '' he simply avoids the hard topics . turning to classical liberalism , arnhart says that darwinian evolution supports a burkean political philosophy . i think this is a plausible argument , although arnhart avoids all the hard questions by choosing as the alternative political philosophy an absurd caricature of the leftist alternative that is more or less 19th century utopianism . societies grow organically , arnhart says , and can not be socially engineered using the principles of reason alone . of course this is correct , but this is accepted by all relevant political philosophers today ( except peter singer and his bizarre ilk ) . what about the proper extent of government , the treatment of poverty , the environment , and foreign relations ? nothing here . i am not a conservative , and i do n't think much of conservative political philosophy , but if i were , i would not be moved by arnhart 's arguments ( i am also not a liberal , by the way , and in fact i think the liberal/conservative dichotomy is a sick joke , but that 's a topic for another day ... )