too popular to bother trying anymore . j.k. rowling successfully put me off this book series within the first two chapters of this book . the characters personalities were wavering in book 5 , in this they completely vanished or mutated . i 'll only be getting the 7th one because it 's the last one and i 've read this far so i might as well go the whole way . in books one through four the trio of harry , ron , and hermione were loveable characters tenaciously and cleverly seeking out the answers to the mysteries that came up each year and saving the day . book 5 had them doing more angsting and screaming than mystery solving , and more whining than day saving . book 6 made them stand in paper doll doing a bad job miming the motions the real characters would have done . this book harry seemed to care more about romance . a very poorly done romance littered with cheezy phrases and romantic moments on par with the worst of bad fanfiction ; which had no background or build up from previous books . a female character from the background , whom harry barely even notices all through the past five books , is suddenly the most perfect and beautiful girl in the school in mary-sue fashion . several other characters in both the foreground and background were also unfortunately treated to rowlings amature attempts at romance , none of which bore any revelance to plot or story . harry also had a significant decline in morality and intelligence . the clever boy who put clues together with his friends now cheats in one of his classes and makes one stupid mistake after another . the image of harry that stuck with me and seemed to glare off the pages every time he spoke or did anything was of him lying , frozen in a curled position on the floor of the train with blood coming out of his broken nose , under his invisibility cloak and rolling around with the trains motion after a particularly stupid episode with malfoy . as to the general plot of the book . poorly done . continually backstaged by sickeningly done romance and angst it barely made an impression on me . most of the 'revealations ' in the book revealed nothing not already known or obvious from old information , and the culmination of what harry was not-quite-solving did n't amount to anything . my final opinion : do n't bother to read past book 4 if you 're just starting the series and care anything at all about characterization . a very disappointing book