job approval down to 38 % and falling ... the cover photo makes bush look thoughtful , somber and deep . what a crock ! the president is n't `` misunderestimated '' . if anything this administration was given a free ride after 911 . ( where is cheney , btw ? ) and dubya , who has yet to string together a coherent sentence , is an embarrassment . that vaunted yale degree has to be courtesy of the elder bush 's wealth and connections . how can bill sammon can write such tripe in the face of this inane war , nation-building , huge deficits , and the sophomoric , cavalier mentality of bush ? hey sammon , we 've now been in iraq 2-1/2 years . it is n't enough that we 've donated several hundred billion to build state of the art hospitals , roads , electrical grids , etc . for these people ? btw , there is concern there are n't enough educated iraquis to actually operate these facilities . it is n't enough that iraqis gas up their vehicles for pennies per gallon while u.s. citizens pay ridiculous prices . the iraquis are still letting our people do all the heavy lifting - and dying . only 1,500 iraqui troops are adequately trained to date ? you have to wonder if these people have the desire or the guts to defend their own freedoms . speaking of defense , when is bush going to do something about the southern borders with mexico . illegal immigration is up 23 % since this man took office and we are paying a heavy price . az and nm have already declared a state of emergency . texas is overrun . illegals are overwhelming schools , emergency rooms , welfare systems . meanwhile bush bicycles on his 1600 acres of texasss brushland , kisses vicente fox 's behind , panders for latino votes to maintain power , and refers to peaceful u.s. citizens trying to monitor our borders as `` vigilantes '' . but he protects the borders of iraq and afghanistan with our military . this man is at the least incompetent , and at the worst treasonous . i 'm embarrassed to admit i voted for this dumbkopf .