dead stall ... warning spoilers ... in the worst installment of a bad series , fitzchivalry wont die . perhaps the most interesting plot point of this whole contrived series is wasted entirely . fitz , who died , and rose again has his potentially interesting ordeal descrobed in perhaps the most boring way possible . i supposed his dead body was infused with both wolf personality and human for a while ( i guess souls mix when they are contained in a tiny brain ) , and of course the seizures . seizures trouble fitz for a while , as long as they are convenient to the plot , and then , of course , they totally vanish . while i found it really interesting that fitz used to be dead , and the ramifications of that , we find that there are no ramifications whatsoever , except for a brief period of eliminate-the-wolf-behavior rehab . i mean , he was reanimated after a period of time , but that 's no big deal i guess . robin hobb is such a good story teller , but she is horrible at plot . except in the liveship traders series , but she must have written that one entirely differently , because you ca n't tell that this is the same author . what she is good at is writing loveable characters , and slowly feeding you tidbits of knowledge about interesting things as the characters `` learn '' about them . in other words she can `` feed the fire '' of the story well to keep interest . but that does n't mean she does it consistently , and this book is a great example of how even hobb can utterly fail . robin relys solely on you loving the characters ( which i feel she herself does ) and she allows that to distract you from reasonable pacing . this book starts out slow , then begins the ending phase of the master plot , and slowly slowly slowly panders through that and then ends in a rush . not to mention the fact that she knows nothing about plausibility . this whole series is based on a character that is as loveable as your little brother , yet supposedly kills without compunction . you know , an assassin . this series asks people a simple question . how would you describe an assassin ? prior to reading this series you might say ruthless , cold , cruel , at best disaffected and callous . crafty certainly . after reading this book , you would say , kind , affectionate , and loves dogs ? add to that loyal to himself first , good natured , well liked , and an advisor to royalty ? so is robin hobb rethinking the role of an assassin ? no , you ca n't do that . an assassin is an assassin . you ca n't change that fact . no , she 's creating a hero who was trained as an assassin , but who only functions as an assassin very very very few times at all , since that is a nasty business . as kind and good natured as fitz is , he never once questions the morality of killing someone because he was told in the weighty manner such a question deserves . he never is actually put to any test . so , robin creates a hero , calls him an assassin , and swings the plot around to have him doing everying imaginable except functioning as a cold-hearted killer . he 's a spy , a soldier , a telepathy partner , a wolf-buddy , and for some reason everyone just thinks he ought to be the hero . when everything comes together , everyone just says fitz , be the hero . for no good reason at all ( because you have telepathy does that make you the guy to go to ? ) . [ ... ] perhaps robin thought the weirdness of the ending scenes would add a sort of tension , and of course , they were being persued , and so i guess that added drama . but of course , the main threat , the `` forged ones '' were not really a threat anymore , but of course , you still have to resolve that issue , and was neatly done in the end . but i felt the whole story , the drama of the `` forged ones '' really was n't so dramatic , and i just do n't get what caused them to behave just like they did . on a fantasy scale , it was new , but not very interesting . robin does much better with dragons in the liveship traders , and these dragons are just stupid . and verity-as-dragon is perhaps the dumbest of all . over all a slow build up for an overall letdown . if i began robin hobb with this series , i would have never read her again . i am forcing myself to finish the tawny man series now , because i want to like her stuff . but i do n't know if i will ever find enough time to finish that sleeper series . overall , try ship of magic , unless you are already invested in this , and have to have closure