ivory tower crackpot theories . no intellectual can afford to be unacquainted with the immortal john dewey and his `` experimental school . '' who would dare criticize the education legend inseparably linked with the irreproachable rhetoric of `` progressivism ? '' i would . dewey 's conception of the child as learner assumes that the uneducated mind is essentially capable of directing its own knowledge by a spontaneous inquisitiveness stemming from nature study . this he then expects to blossom into a more expanded consideration of the various academic subjects with the teacher merely facilitating transitions and answering the child 's self-posed questions . the problems in dewey 's model begin with his science fair-meets-museum-meets-playground-meets-lecture hall school design : the model is untested on any large scale and the cost plus upkeep is prohibitively expensive . classes are small and require several specialists and non-reusable materials . as if kids did n't have enough problems with the basic skills set already , dewey would have them heavily involved in shop and home economics . even more outrageous in dewey 's model is the premise that we ought never force students to study what they do not like . their own intellectual prejudices reign supreme and by implication , teachers are discouraged from evaluating against solid standards . experienced teachers know that kids can easily hide their shortcomings even when required to study their weak subjects , and that remediation is hard to implement before they slip further behind . how could dewey 's recommendation to cater almost exclusively to the child 's intrinsic likes not further disguise and exacerbate low performance ? deweyism of course , like many other off-the-wall theories of education , denies behaviorism when it refuses to acknowledge psychological patterns in man . it depicts formulaic teaching and learning as fundamentally faulty and generalized curricula as harmful to student individuality . nothing could less representative of the quality research conducted , particularly project follow through : the great skeleton in the student-centered advocates ' closet . i 'd personally like to see dewey 's updated plan for seamlessly moving kids , who come into class with their `` natural inquisitiveness '' programmed by tv , rap music , and other pop media , into colonial american history , calculations of hyperbolic asymptotes , tennessee williams , and the `` plus-que-parfait '' tense . but of course , such leaps of interest are unnecessary if we utterly throw out the old-fashioned academic corpus along with the old-fashioned school system . 90 % of students in high schools today report that they do not feel adequately challenged . maybe the answer does n't lie in yielding to children 's lack of intellectual discipline but in tapping their potential to control that uninformed caprice . dewey 's `` progressivism '' relies upon the contradiction of allowing uneducated mind educate the teacher on its own education . from the absurdity of it , i can only conclude that sane people latch onto this school gedankenexperiment to maintain an escapist fantasy in light of dismally high drop-out rates , lowered standards , and social discord . but a radical solution is not necessarily synonymous with a good one