a disappointment i have been greatly been disappointed in this book . i am a total francophile and soak up just about any book on life in southern france , be it travelogue , novel , cultural study , etc . i have been reading map of another town over the past few months and it 's been a struggle . mfk fisher goes into painfully boring and unnecessary detail on the most insignificant things , like having to go back and forth between offices and buildings while seeking the appropriate vaccinations for a trip to africa , and what she thinks of every little thing related to the process . she 'll devote pages and pages to experiences that have nothing to do with live in aix-en-provence and its environs -- it 's a map of her own head , where she spends too much time . she finds herself rather fascinating , but i found her self-centered . i thought it would be interesting to read about life there in the 1950s and 1960s , but again , the book is less a cultural study than autobiographical ramblings ( if you can find it , village in the vaucluse , a laurence wylie cultural study first written in 1957 and updated in 1967 and 1974 , is fascinating and was one of my college texts for a french culture course -- 5 stars plus. ) . i probably will not even bother with a considerable town and will finish map of another town only because i feel like i should . if you are considering this book because life in southern france fascinates you , i would instead recommend any of the peter mayle books ( not jumping on the bandwagon here ; i 've read his books from the beginning and own all of them , and his writing style is absolutely delightful and endearing , even when he 's being a snob ) , yvone lenard , etc . in fact , peter mayle 's books so charmingly describe provence that they serve as a guidebook to the best the region has to offer , so you can visualize and plan your own trip . with his writing style , it feels like you 're along for the trip , whereas with mfk fisher , you wonder when you 're going to get there .