narrow mindness or just stupidity ? ? ? i want to respond to this book and all voices given . some said that it points out how turks eliminated greek etc . in the 15th century from asia . well , if it should get historical , people would know that turks already started to settle down in asia around 10th- to 11th century . the population was getting crowded with turks than ( old ) greeks . fights have been fought byzants against the selcuks . the byzantiniens did n't like the way asia was getting more and more full with turks . wars have been fought , byzans lost the war , ottoman empire succeeded , easy so far i hope to follow . coming to the situation at 20th century , the so called `` holocaust '' at greeks and armenians . everybody knows that britain used the greeks and armenians to get access to iraq , which didnt exist as a country at that time , because of oil which most of you should know . greeks and armenians were used so british could get more access to iraq and other nations with a lot of oil , like kuwait etc . so , greeks started to rebell and armenians , too . thousands of turks were killed in west and east-asia . the answer for ongoing slaughters on the turkish population was to relocate the armenians , at east asia , who made troubles and greeks , at west asia . but , no body could know who were the trouble makers , so it was decided that the whole population has to move away if turkey wanted to claim those lands . greeks did the same at these day greek teritory , northeast greece . northeast greece was populated mostly with turks , but they `` had '' to move because of the killing greeks did on the turkish population there , so turkish and greekish gov't decided to move their populations . greek got their populations back from west-asia , safely , and turks their own from ottoman lands ( nowadays , northeast greece ) . oh , did i forget to point out that it was `` normal '' for nations to move away populations of the 'other ' kind because of the problem , if more people of another kind live there they were able to claim it . so , even greece and other nations did this thing , it was normal to do at those times . so to point out , it is biased , this book . turks did their best in relocating the whole armenians but did n't have enough supplies , which ended in couple of thousand of deaths which is still nothing compared to the deaths of the turks . yes , it was a tragedy , but every nation has one , even the turks . the holocaust at cyprus in the 1900's-1970 's at the turkish population . the unaccounted numbers of violations against humanity against turks at bulgaria ( 19th-20th century ) , greece ( until the 1980 's and 90 's ) , russia ( 19th-21st century ) , cyprus ( 19th century-1970 's ) , and west-china ( until these days ) . people should be more aware of history , and reading this book it was said to see how biased people are against people like my nation , people , and myself . armenians living in turkey have no troubles , i ask myself , why ? freedom of religion was always granted in turkey . even these days the greek gov't does n't allow a mosque in athen , i ask myself why ? there are orthodox-churches in turkey . hatred causes blindness ! keep an open mind and read a good book which tells the truth story . a.k