inconsistent - some greatness amongst some disjointed tedium i got this for christmas and finished it late last night . as the tale begins , the author initiates two primary storylines , the first is set in wwii spanning both the european and pacific theatres . the second is modern day and is centered on a california start-up ( with requisite ambitious young guys ) with primary business interests in the far east . one knows the stories are connected because of similar last names in both . the other connection is encryption - how crytography was central to the war and how it is central to current day business and , in the author 's view , central to the future of civilization . one of the great pluses of the book is how the author made use of these commonalities between ww2 and modern-day to create interest and anticipation . the middle of the book actually made use of these quite well and i was eager to keep reading . there is some terrific writing in middle sections and descriptions of people and places both in europe and the far east are very vivid . the author does write with terrific humour at times and i was reminded in several places about a series of books written about wwi called `` the bandy papers - the journals of bartholomew bandy '' by donald jack . very similar in style as the author captures the points of view - dry wit - of grandpa ( ww2 ) and grandson ( techno geek ) waterhouse . the presentation of gen. douglas mcarthur was ( from my canadian perpective ) endearingly flag-waving-pipe-chomping-bullet- shedding-american-super-hero and , of course , totally unbelievable . then i hit the final pages where i had hoped to receive a big-payoff to the build-up over the previous thousand pages . alas , it was not to be and all the tedious verbiage that scarred the entire book turned out to be a sad bell-weather . one of the `` 1 star '' reviews amongst these reviews suggested that tolkien was nothing compared to neal stephenson as far as filling up pages with words . there are numerous examples of page after page of `` who cares '' blathering which may tell us that some of the characters are in fact terribly boring individuals but do not deepen the characterizations . one of the good points is that when you hit such a section - and the reader will recognize them - you can simply skip about 5 pages or more and pick up the story without missing anything . the book could have been shortened by about 400 pages , maybe more . i 'm guessing there is an encrypted message in the pages somewhere but i could n't care less . some story lines , characters and inferences are left totally unresolved in the end ( e.g . what happened to the dentist ? ) . a case of author boredom and a loss of interest as the ending approached ? and why the heck did andrew loeb make a final appearance ! talk about out-of-place and just bizarre . i dunno what the author is thinking sometimes but several times he comes across as just a tad too clever . at least 3 times during the book ( inluding the opening pages ) i did n't have a clue what he was talking about . for example , one such bit of cleverness is his incorporation of the hindenberg disaster in new jersey - the narrative is written at that point from the perspective of a main character who stumbles literally out of the woods after seeing a brightness in the sky . it is not central or even obliquely of interest to the story line . the author never mentions hindenberg by name and it is left to the reader ( if you can pass the author 's ever-so-clever test of cleverness ) to figure it out . it seemed somewhat a condescending ( to the reader ) writing style . there is the usual technology-dropping ( like dropping names but gadgets instead of people ) to presumably up the coolness factor and from my knowledge it is mostly , but not always , believable . ultimately , why there is some terrific writing , the overall result is a draft that needs 1 or 2 more rewrites and a worthy ending to really tell a terrific story . summary - go directly to tom clancy 's books which are executed much better and have endings that offer a consistent pay-off ( but with less humour ) . clancy can also go on and on ... but not like this guy ! the paperback story is 1130 pages of small type that is hard to read