who were the mulvaneys ? this book was neither bad nor good and therefore leaves me with little inspiration to write a review . what must be said is that this book had great potential , which was never fully developed . the idea was good . even some characters were good . well , actually just patrick . and come to think of it , i ended up liking muffin ( the cat ) more than i did any of the other mulvaneys . though even as a cat lover , i got sick of hearing about muffin and the other animals which were way too many in the first place . the book did go on and on , too much description about the ordinary ( and , oh so cliche at times ! ) .i did n't like the way it jumped between 3rd person and 1st person narrative . i did n't find it confusing , i just found it awkward . it did n't give the chance to really get inside judd 's head ( i mean , it was `` his '' story after all ) . i could n't love or hate anyone in the book . it was hard to tell what their motives were and `` who '' the real person was inside them . they seemed so in-and-out of character . maybe that was the author 's way of exposing them as phonies ? i 'm not sure . but without love or hate , there 's really nothing left to feel as a reader . left to chose between a ditzy mother , a jerk-of-a-father ( but not a jerk enough to hate him or care about what happens to him ) , an eldest son who is like a prop in this book , a brainiac son who gets revenge only to disappear and become someone completely different without warning or reason , a victimized daughter , that you ca n't really feel all that sorry for , the youngest son ( also a prop ) , i 'm not sure who to root for ( if anyone ) . the worst part was , just when i started warming up to the book ( forgiving its flaws , hoping for a great ending ) , i was hugely let down . it took me about a week to finish the last 2 chapters because the end of the book just dragged and i found myself too tired to pick it up . we are told in a quick ( but ironically again , long and tedious ) after-the-fact fashion about what has become of marianne and then in the epilogue everything is `` wrapped up '' quickly and neatly with no realism whatsoever . i feel if you 're going to resolve things in the end , then resolve them -- -tell us what it is and how it came to be without just glossing over everything . the book was long enough ; some pages should have been assigned to the ending instead of all the fluff in between . this is a book that should make you cry , but i felt nothing ( and i am one of the biggest crybabies ever ) . if you want a good book about family and family secrets , read ann-marie macdonald 's `` fall on your knees '' or `` the way the crow flies '' instead . both excellent books .