randcek in the 1950s , television filled the void left by the senate inquiries and the imposition of the comics code . a new resurgence in the 60s , comic books were exciting again , carrying into the 70s spurred by superhero and horror/mystery comics . bottoming out again in the eighties , this time the culprit- video games . today the enemies , television and gaming , are still with us vieing for our time . comics are not truly accessable to the buying public . they 've become the property of an exclusive club that seems to revel mostly in some artist 's wet dreams . how nice to know they can excercise his or her artistic rights and freedom . but no one is buying it ! it 's dead for all intents and purposes . comic shops have to fill their shelves with collectible toys to make it . the comics i buy are at liest more than 30 years old . the new ones just are not interesting and even with all of this self-examination and navel probing , the quality just is n't there . it 's my opinion that it does n't have to read like shakespear and look like rembrant to be a good comic . but it must entertain . the effort has been underway for years to leave the lowly comic book in the dust , replaced by the graphic novel . all in the name of impoving ( the perception anyway ) of the comic book market ! even hbos tales from the crypt '' opening credits state 'adapted from the comic magazine ... ' the internet will not save comic books . it is n't a 'book ' in the first place . illegal downloading will kill it . scanning comic books is already a problem . the salvation of the medium is in the hands of something that is not real ? if you can not hold it and carress it in your hands like a lover then it will not satisfy ( oops , better watch my own dreaming ! ) . i do have a love affair with comic books . the only salvation i believe are two things : 1 ) comic books must be put back into the public eye through stores or what have you . recruitment to comic books through casual 'walk by ' customers who are not necessarily seeking out comics , they just happen upon them out in public stores . yes , the great unwashed and 'unenlightend ' masses parting with their three bucks is the only thing that will help save the comicbooks ! 2 ) the superhero must die ! and artists and writers must excercise self control or face the imposition of a new comics code