pete , you still do n't get it do n't read this book . i wish i had n't . it ruined pete rose in my eyes , not because of what others have said about him , but because of what rose said about himself . my grandpa was a huge fan of pete rose and once took me to meet him at riverfront stadium when i was around six . about the only thing i 'm glad for with this book is it did n't come out in my grandpa 's lifetime . we all make mistakes . we 're only human and that 's what humans do : we screw up . sometimes badly . i wish pete rose was in the hall of fame . i wish he was coaching the reds today . i wish most of all he 'd never placed a single bet on baseball . but as for pete , like i said up there , he still does n't get it , and i doubt he ever will . this book was a disappointment for many reasons . it did give me a nice look at pete 's career with the cincinati reds and took me back to my grandfather 's tales of how great the big red machine of the 1970 's was , but what was lacking in these 322 pages was contrition , and i think that was supposed to be what this book was about . the pete rose i met in my prison without bars , was a likable fellow , but underneath his trip down memory lane was a sort of combative , `` this is somebody else 's fault '' attitude that put me off and i 'm sure put a lot of others off , too . rose admits at last that he in fact bet on baseball during the 1980 's , a fact that surprised virtually no one , but instead of presenting an apology , or even a straightforward confession , rose comes across as a bitter man , still trying to squirm away from his wrongdoing . he blames everyone from his friends and business associates , to major league baseball ( for not forgiving his gambling addiction as it did the drug and alcohol addicitons of other players ) . rather than presenting the public with his mea culpa , charlie hustle , the greatest baseball player of his era , left me feeling negative toward him , and thinking he is a slightly unintelligent crook . those were not images i had of the man before i started this book and i 'm sorry that 's how i felt when i was done . if i could say something to the man whose life is the subject of this work , i 'd tell him : pete , you 've led an interesting sixty-plus years . you 're one of the greats and a hometown hero for what you did on the field . you deserve to be in cooperstown . but your attempt to make amends with this book -- -probably your last chance , sadly -- is a dismal failure and a backset . i remember well the night you passed ty cobb 's all-time hitting record . i read this mostly to acquaint myself with a player about whom i heard so much growing up . i now wish i did n't know 4/5ths of what i now do know about you . as i said starting out : do n't read this book