a talented writer who 's wrong more often than right ... reading john simon 's latest compilation of film reviews begs the question , does one have to be `` right '' to be a great critic or can simply writing cleverly and rigorously in defense of a basically incorrect critical assessment suffice ? what i have always admired about mr. simon is his unflappable way of sticking to his own view irregardless of the popular/critical consensus surrounding him . yet stanley kauffmann tended to give negative notices to many of the same films as simon while writing more sympathetically , insightfully and fairly about the works , so where does that leave simon ? out in the cold i 'm afraid . reading this latest simon book is exasperating as he snootily dismisses one great film after another ( au revoir les enfants , saving private ryan , etc . ) i finally came to the consensus that however good a writer he is , he is simply too far off the critical mark ... too often . simon has a famous reputation for been gratuitously nasty toward female actresses whom he does n't care for the looks of and that continues in this collection . as another reviewer notes , this latest collection also appears to solidify his reputation for being a homophobe too . going all the way back to his review of zefferelli 's romeo and juliet in 1968 ( where he accuses the director of being a [ ... ] because of the nude love scenes ) to his recent review of my own private idaho which he quickly dismisses as a `` homosexual fantasy '' his reviews have had a nasty homophobic edge to them , something stanley kauffmann , pauline kael or roger ebert 's writings have never had . and the fact that he liked outrageous ! ( about a drag queen ) back in 1978 and savage nights ( about a bisexual hiv+ frenchman ) in the 1980 's does n't absolve him in my mind for all the nasty remarks he 's voiced elsewhere over the years regarding `` homosexuals '' ( he never uses the word gay , it 's always `` homosexuals '' . simon 's writing is just as caustic and technically proficient as always ( and he still loves providing untranslated foreign quotes ) but all that effort is at the expense of all too often unappreciative and skewed critical views . for my money , the essential critics remain pauline kael , roger ebert , stanley kauffmann and david thomson , soon to be joined by anthony lane of the new yorker