a decent book , but it has some errors and details missing . i was walking around the local library the other day and came across multiple books on writing . to my surprise , the public library had more books on writing than the college library . i thought to myself , `` i 've been looking for these kind of books to enhance my writing ! '' so i grasped this book in my hands and began reading away . as i continued through this book , i began to notice the editorial commas . i slowly connected the truth of the book 's title to the content of the book : this was a book based around press and media writing . i found a nice and quiet place to read at the library 's local history room and then sat down near a desk . while reading , i decided to give this book a review , so i wrote down notes in a notebook . however , my logic and learned way of writing may or may not conflict with one from the press ; but i felt that errors and other press related style and/or punctuation was not pointed out soon enough . therefore , i was confused as to the difference between press writing and academic writing , and may have created a biased review . i would have liked the differences pointed out . please do n't smack me with the stupid stick for having errors in this review : i 'm still working on my english . with that being said , onto the online *evil smirk* book review . e-mail vs. email : as much as i admire a businessman becoming a writer for the journal of technical writing and communication , he forgot one thing : e stands for electronic ! instead of being 1337 , he went on this long rant about being an `` oldbie '' on the web and a javaslinger ; he coded his first page in raw html ( javascript ) . i 'm oldschool , but at least i understand why it was called `` e-mail . '' something that i found silly was his inability to appeal to authority . let me ask you something : if the owner of ebay were to write up a report about his or her company and list the company 's name multiple times through the report , then would you accept that as the correct spelling ? i would . case closed . appeal to creator wins . possible error at the top paragraph on page 59 : `` the first example , however , places 'and added ' in a parallel position ; thus the 'and added ' clause is made dependent on the ... '' let 's look at the semicolon and the word `` thus '' . last time i checked , a person is suppose to use a comma after and independent marker ; thus , a comma comes after 'thus ' . is the missing comma suppose to be some type of associated press ( ap ) writing editorial punctuation ? you could smack me with a stick for not reading the ap style guide , but it would have been nice if the author and the copyeditors noted what was going on . some of the material and possible errors at this point make me question if i should continue reading the book . i looked up semicolon in the index , and it was about 30 or so pages ahead of the past page i was at . i noticed the semicolon was feared by the author and not brought out in detail . i 'm not chuckling . i 've questioned a few of the matters in this book . i 've been able to accept press vs. academic so far , but i 'm starting to get concerned if what i 'm learning is correct or not . i grabbed the book from the library to learn . however , if these are mistakes , then i 'm a novice writer learning mistakes that were n't meant to be mistakes . i do n't think that 's a good way to learn how to write . do you ? let 's go to the their vs. his or her debate : i do n't care who or what you are , i 'm going to use his or her . if something is singular , it 's going to stay that way . i do n't approve of the media or some other brainwashing superpower to change the rules of english grammar . this is why i 've got to love some of the reviews on amazon.com . people do n't seem to care about grammar . makes me feel like someone is trying to sell me snake oil and the people around me are conspiring with the retailer . apparently , i 'm not the only one that feels this way . not after reading the rest of the reviews here . may i mention that amazon.com was advertised in the book ? yeah . thanks for dumbing down grammar . another section was where he used a comma instead of a semicolon to creates sentences like the following : page 91 : i like trix , i like lucky charms , and i like cocoa pebbles . maybe i 'm missing something here ; maybe he was trying to detail something ; maybe he 's adhd and forgot ; and maybe the book is adhd . i like trix , lucky charms , and cocoa pebbles . thank you parallelism . a person is suppose to use a semicolon instead of this serial comma junk he 's selling ; however , this could be a style concern . another entry about style and its concerns with semicolons could have been inserted . yeah . i 'm done reading after 60 pages or so . at least i read more than a fifth of the book . parts of the book i liked : introduction to brackets . it may not have been correct , but i understand what it 's about . `` i 've written a stylebook that i hope makes the following point : be skeptical of stylebooks . '' you seem to have accomplished your goal : your book makes me borderline schizophrenic