a poor book i began reading this book in a local christian bookstore . i was utterly shocked at the bad reasoning that is passed off in this book as `` proof '' that popular trends , including pokemon and harry potter , as evil . the author first claims that the vomiting and dizziness that some people experience while watching pokemon is `` proof '' that pokemon is satanic . it 's called 'epilepsy ' , jacobs , and according to http : //www.cptech.org/ip/wto/p6/msf052003.pdf , there were 1.4 million people who suffer from it in 1996 . she then claims that pokemon `` encourages '' its players to cheat using the gameshark - a cheating device for those who do n't know . this indicates lack of knowledge on her part . first of all , the gameshark is not a pokemon phenomenon ; you can cheat on almost any videogame . secondly , i rather doubt that cheating on a videogame is proof of `` bad morals '' on the part of the gamer . jacobs concludes her pokemon section by citing an instance when a fourteen year old pokemon fan assaulted someone in his high school in order to obtain a pokemon . since when , exactly , has the bad behavior of one teenager reflected on an entire franchise ? that 's like saying that all christians are responsible for the dishonest practices of televangelists like the bakkers and robert tilton . the section covering harry potter contains similar bad logic . jacobs cites a quote from a young fan of harry potter who claims that they want to `` become a witch '' , thereby reasoning that the entire harry potter franchise must be evil because of the acts of one fan . she also concludes that harry potter `` must '' be evil because it is about witchcraft . the bible contains historical accounts of entire civilizations being eliminated and many other violent subjects , but that does n't mean that anyone who reads the bible is murderous . it means that the bible happens to contain violent passages . jacobs is supposed to prove conclusively that harry potter , pokemon , magic cards , and other trendy fads are satanic , but i think that her arguments are quite weak . she more proves that these fads are not satanic than she does prove that they are