disappointing book and code on audio signal processing this book is simply hideous , and if the rating system would let me give it zero stars i would do just that . the text will not enlighten you if you do not understand audio signal processing , and if you already do understand it , nothing will be added to your knowledge . the only thing worthwhile about the book is the table of contents , since it does act as an outline of the subjects you should know , in order , if you intend to learn about digital audio signal processing . following this table of contents as a guide , you should learn about psychoacoustics , digital signal processing in general , analysis & synthesis of sound , user interface methods , and finally effects specific to sound and compression methods if you wish to call yourself knowledgeable of audio signal processing . unfortunately , you will learn none of that from this book . instead , what you get is a sort of wandering novel consisting of the author 's memoirs and musings on signal processing subjects . there are virtually no instructive diagrams , no equations , no pseudocode , just page after page of conversational text . sure , i grant you that the author talks about subjects that i have not found in other texts , but that is part of the whole problem- he just chatters on incessantly about these subjects without being the least bit instructive . some authors who write useless texts at least include source code on their cd 's that partially make up for their lack of talent as writers/instructors . in this case you shall have no such luck . the code is one monolithic ball of lint so deeply entrenched in windows-specific mfc code that it is virtually impossible to unravel . there are no comments to speak of to enlighten you as to what is going on in any of the code . instead the reader will find comments such as `` i suggest somebody to fix that '' and `` saves typing later '' . if you do want to learn about digital audio processing , you might want to take a tip from the table of contents and start with psychoacoustics and pick up the excellent `` music , cognition , and computerized sound : an introduction to psychoacoustics '' by perry cook , which is good enough for self-study . for dsp for the music-centric reader , try `` a digital signal processing primer : with applications to digital audio and computer music '' by ken steiglitz- it is very instructive , has plenty of equations and diagrams , and reads like a novel . next , for analysis and synthesis of sound , find a copy of `` musical applications of microprocessors '' by hal chamberlain . it was written in 1985 , but it is an excellent introduction to sound analysis and synthesis in general and has a very good section on digital filters specific to audio . these three volumes should get you on your way to saying you understand digital audio processing . if you are a more advanced reader , read the two excellent volumes by udo zolzer- `` digital audio signal processing '' and `` dafx '' - in that order .