the globalization of guilt 1 . the persective of most writers is shaped by their own experience . dr.steele is an american black , a baby boomer , a member of the academic elite , a liberal arts major , and a political `` conservative '' .this certainly affects his perpective when he discusses social issues . 2 . i felt that he was on pretty solid ground and made some good points when he was telling about his own experiences growing up in a segregated america and during the civil rights movement . his take on the psychological hangover after the 1964 passage of civil rights legislation regarding the attempts by the white power structure to regain `` moral authority '' by doing good ... .and the black power advocates ready acceptance of those attempts ... helps explain some of the dysfunctional after- effects that are still with us . 3 . where i disagree with his analysis - speaking from my own experience and perspective of course - is that he takes the race issue which he says has been pretty well settled in the us and then blows it all out of proportion by saying that white guilt is the underlying cause of nearly every difficult social issue in the last 50 years ! and he blames the `` dissociating liberals '' ( whoever they are ) for attempting to deal with these social issues . excuse me , but i recall nixon and the reaganites being in power for awhile and the bush dynasty is still with us and i have n't seen a lot of effort being done to get-together and fix things for average folks here in the good ole us of a . of course pressing the guilt button in this mainly judeo-christian culture is a sure fire way to get everyones attention . 4 . my point is that by injecting blatant partisanship into the discourse he took a premise that people of all persuasions might coalesce around and instead divides us even further.his statement about red and blue states was a hoot ! how is this helpful ? where are his suggestions for improvement - other than that he thinks bush & co. now have the `` moral authority '' that has been so lacking in america ? some might be inclined to disagree . 5 . finally , as a black dr. steele misreads me as a white liberal in that i have never felt guilty about my white heritage - only ashamed for the historically extremely dysfunctional behavior of many of our fellow humans - themselves victims of misbegotten religious dogma.if we stop trying to improve our world just because we make mistakes in the process ... ... ... and if we fail to learn the lessons of the past , we will be condemned to repeat them or be blown into outer space.not a happy prospect for this social progressive and fiscal conservative .