the `` waiting for godot '' of novels the moviegoer is a book about a 30 year , disaffected businessman . he 's successful and liked , from a rich new orleans family , but bored with life . he does n't know what he wants , and does n't know what to do about it . this description , however , sounds like binx bolling , the main character , is actually doing something to figure out what 's wrong . unfortunately , the book just follows him around through his life over the course of a week and describes his boredom and dissatisfaction with the things around him . while interesting from a theoretical , philosophical , existential point of view , it makes for boring reading . in addition , the book , released in 1960 feels badly dated , about a time and place that no longer exists , so while i have experienced my own bouts of existential angst , binx 's problems are not mine and the book is not written in a way to help sympathize with his plight . this is in stark contrast to kafka , for example , whose stories of frustration and nothingness from 19th century prague can bring me to tears . while the novel is set in new orleans , there is little description to make the unique setting visible other than the names of a few streets . similarly , binx remains a faceless everyman , and the women he dates so interchangeable that binx himself can barely keep them distinct . the title , too , is misleading . `` the moviegoer '' made me expect a story about a person who lived his life through characters in the movies . while binx does attend movies regularly and describes people in terms of long forgotten actors , i have to assume the title refers to binx 's problem of watching life around him without participating the same way as we watch a movie . like the existential play `` waiting for godot '' this story is mostly about the lack of a story , and though things happen , there is little sense of suspense or caring to carry the narrative forward . if you 're looking for an existential novel , i 'd strongly recommend kafka 's the castle or the trial instead . and if you 're looking for an enjoyable novel that truly distills the distinctiveness of new orleans with a truly memorable set of characters , a confederacy of dunces ( john kennedy toole ) ( which walker percy was instrumental in having published after the suicide of the author ) is among the best novels of our times . but the moviegoer is a hard slog for little payoff .