historical truth ? i 'm interested by all the reviewers who claim this book is a good one despite the racist stereotypes of `` savage '' natives because , they say , it 's `` the truth . '' the review before mine is especially interesting ; he proclaims to love the book and reads it to his children as it teaches about defending your home against terrorism . reviewers like myself are just spewing `` liberal diatribe . '' another reviewer asks `` as for the savages , who was attacking who ? '' everyone thinks of the scenario of little edward and his innocent family just living their lives until these terrible indians come along and want to wipe them out . in the interest of historical truth , would you look at it another way ? think of your home and neighborhood . you may have lived there for years , or you may have just moved from a neighboring town . you participate in community activities , your children are educated with your neighbors children , you attend religious services . then one day , a group of foreign soldiers come into your neighborhood , and say it now belongs to them . as americans , how would you feel if a group of italian , english , russian , french , etc. , soldiers did this ? they claim the neighborhood in the name of their government and demand that you leave your home and go elsewhere . pretend no telephones , telegraph , or internet exist . you go to your government and tell them about the soldiers , but they have no way of notifying the foriegn soldiers government that this land is already settled . your government sends an army to eject the soldiers , but is defeated . eventually you have to leave . the soldiers keep coming , and it 's not long before families from the soldiers land come as well . they keep expanding further and further , and forcing you and your family to keep moving , killing many of your family and friends . eventually all of you have had enough of this treatment - instead of fighting only their soldiers , your leaders get small citizen 's armies together to attack their settlements as they have yours . now , who is the terrorist in this case ? if you want your children to know the historical truth , you should tell them the whole truth . comparing the original inhabitants of north and south america to the 9-11 terrorists is not accurate . comparing the european invaders - let me see , they killed the natives who wanted to keep the land they 'd lived on for centuries , and forcibly converted them to european religions , as the native religions were `` heathen . '' if you believe everything i 've written is just `` liberal diatribe , '' go on happily reading this book to your kids , with no true historical references . i 'm just a mixed-blood savage , so of course what i think wo n't count with you .