both sides of the coin ... wow . i read this book a few days ago , and definitely have my own opinion on it . i thought i would come here and see what other folks are saying , and i 'm not altogether surprised . the first thing that continually surprises me when i read a poorly written book is how so many people can think it is , in fact , well-written , if not even brilliant . there is , of course , no accounting for taste . what disturbs me more than the inability of people to recognize both poor writing and equally poor scholarship ( which suggests a lack in either education or practice ) is how people can urge others to have a balanced view on a subject when they quite obviously could not be more imbalanced in their own views . i urge those of you that see bush as a righteous man to please `` read around . '' there are , obviously , dozens of books about this man and his actions that touch on topics that books like god and george w. bush will not even acknowlege , much less discuss , defend , or justify . to ignore these other sources of information is to be possibly tragically misinformed . while i do not doubt that many of the previous reviews come from good and intelligent people , i am forced to wonder how they can support a man who performs acts , or at least allows them to be performed , that are every bit as vile as that which he claims to oppose . read other books and you will see . one subject that always makes me wince is the labeling of those fighting our soldiers as evil . i am not supporting them or denouncing our own , but merely urging all of us to recognize the humanity of others . labeling a people as evil undermines their humanity and suggests that they do not have good reasons to be fighting , but that they fight simply to overcome those who `` love freedom . '' this is from page 114 of this very book , ( a quote from phyllis wheatley ) `` in every human breast , god has implanted a principle which we call love of freedom . '' here 's a 'revolutionary ' thought : everybody loves and wants freedom . if people are fighting they are fighting for freedom , we simply must ask one question : freedom from what ? read around and see for yourself if you can answer such a question . also , see if you can discover , honestly and objectively , the freedoms that we are currently fighting for . another huge bother for me in this book is that kengor refers to texas as the largest state in the nation . it 's difficult to take the rest of his scholarship seriously when he makes such a statement . another horrific , to my mind , thought is that bush , and lots of his followers , truly believes that god wants him to be president . a megalomaniacal zealot in charge of a cadre of nukes with an `` i 'm on a mission from god '' world view scares the hell out of me .