let him walk the plank - you go read something else at the end of this diatribe , the author admits that they do n't want him back cruising . and i do n't blame them . he is just one of those passengers that you ca n't please no matter what . is he fussy ? let facts be submitted to a candid world : quote : `` on the ultra luxury radisson diamond , the same waiters that served my partner and me were also serving a table of senior officers and vips . their mineral water was poured from a bottle wrapped in a white napkin ; our mineral water - the same brand ( how did he know if theirs was wrapped ? ) -- was poured without the napkin . '' holy cow ! mineral water without a napkin - how dare they ! at the same sitting , the author complains of a fish head that has fish eyes staring out at him and , guess what , the fish smells fishy ! that 's an earthquake ! more complaints : the food is n't any better than a three star hotel ! ( ever stay at a three star hotel in france ? the food is super . ) more whines : the vips get special treatments and special parties ( shocking ! ) , the music around the pool is too loud , too rap and hard rock , the free wine on board only costs the cruise line only $ 2 , he cracked a tooth and the cruise line would n't pay his dental bill until he got a lawyer friend who obtained the money plus `` a meager compensation . '' but the thing that bothered me the most was his inconsistency . he berates the industry for alleged mistreatment of their employees and yet he himself seems to cause those employees more trouble that 99 % of the other passengers and he ca n't figure out why those employees , like the bartender on page 157 , whom he nagged for several days , hate him so much . he berates the passengers and ships for causing pollution , yet he himself has taken ( and presumably will try to take ) multiple cruises . the massive improvements in waste management and sanitation and pollution control and fuel efficiency are dismissed as not enough . he nitpicks about occasional oil spills but fails to mention that according to the us coast guard 99 % of the oil pollution of the seas comes from natural sources , mainly undersea vents . but what 's this ? the author 's website which is billed as a `` noncommercial site regularly updated with links to reports , investigations , and new developments regarding labor , ship safety , and security '' is not functioning . the website is n't function just the way this book is n't functioning . the best treatment for the likes of him is to throw him overboard or make him walk the plank . if you want to know about cruising , instead of reading this piece of junk , get a hold of any book by john maxtone-graham . his `` the only way to cross '' is a classic .