repulsive i read this book because after i read `` pure '' by rebecca ray , i noticed this book was listed with `` pure '' here on this site . i did n't really care for rebecca ray 's book and i hope this one would be better . all this book did was made me realize that `` pure '' really was n't that horrible . if i could give this book zero stars , i would do it . it plays like an impossible fantasy put together by some stupid 20 year old who reads too many boring teen magazines still . in this book , it plays like a long letter some boring teenager is writing to her boyfriend . it never really feels like a letter though . that is such an contrived way for the author to tell her story . the teacher is never named either . the author describes sex scenes and the student mostly seduced the teacher . it sounds really dumb too . like the author will go , `` i switched sides i was laying on to look especially sexy for you '' and if you like hearing that same sort of garbage over and over again , i guess this is the book for you . the author tries to sexualize a 14 year old and make it sound like her every movement or thought was about sleeping with her teacher . it was really disgusting that the author would write something like this and it was disturbing too . normal kids do n't think and act this way . it 's clear that the author enjoys the fantasy of being just a teen with a adult lover but what she has done by writing this crap is try to make teen girls sound manipulative and over sexual . it 's nasty . it 's her twenty year old thoughts and words put into the body of a 14 year old for the story . her story is not believeable anyway . the uncle and aunt never try to find their niece ? the teacher never gets in trouble or found out for what he is doing ? not buying it . also , the book has very many cringe worthy moments such as when she keeps berating the teacher , calling him stupid , encouraging him to sleep with her , yuck . and then it 's `` darling '' this and `` baby '' everywhere else . it 's sickening . after i read this , i threw it in a dumpster so noone else would have the misfortune of reading it . not even fit to give away . horrible