fans of island of the blue dolphins : stay away from zia longtime fans of scott o'dell 's classic island of the blue dolphins , do yourself a favor and avoid this lackluster sequel . island of the blue dolphins was one of my favorite books as a kid . i must 've read it at least a dozen times . somehow , i did n't find out that it had a sequel until years later . intrigued by the idea of a sequel to island , which kind of ends on a cliffhanger , i read zia . i was interested in seeing how scott o'dell would handle what happens to karana when she is finally rescued off the island after being stranded for 18 years . as you probably know , island of the blue dolphins was based on a true story , but the facts are few about the real lost woman . so how would the talented writer scott o'dell concoct what happens to karana ? the result , zia , is terribly disappointing . for starters , fans of karana wo n't have much to read about . at least half of the book deals with her niece and nephew trying to go to the island to rescue her . the story is told completely from the niece 's point of view . we never get to hear what karana herself thought about experiencing a new land and being reunited with people after so many years , and the sadness she must have faced at finding that her tribe was gone . we learn almost nothing about what happened to karana 's father and sister , just that her sister 's children have ended up orphans in a missionary . and sadly , there 's nothing interesting about karana 's niece zia and her brother . they merely serve as plot devices to stretch this paper-thin story out over 100 pages or so . i now appreciate the `` cliffhanger '' ending of island of the blue dolphins in its perfect simplicity . it is better to leave the story when karana leaves the island , and let it be . your own imagination about what it was like for karana to live at a missionary where no one spoke her language and there was no trace of her tribe left is better than the depressing depiction of her life in zia . i wish i could erase zia from my mind . zia truly is a sequel that should not have been written