where 's the beef ? the animal rights issue is a tricky one , because it touches on really deep questions about what it means to be conscious , to have rights , and to experience suffering . so you might expect a philosopher to be able to sort through the ethical issues and suggest a way forward . if so , you would be disappointed by this book . the first chapter lays out the philosophical foundation of the book . singer argues that there 's really no basis for assigning equal rights to all humans , since different humans have different abilities . therefore equality must be based on the recognition of another person 's interests . since animals have interests too , they deserve equal treatment . that 's it . it 's not terribly deep , and frankly not even rational , but singer does n't bother to elaborate . so if animals have interests , then they obviously have an interest in not suffering . how do we know animals are capable of suffering ? according to singer there are two signs : they seek to avoid painful stimuli and they have nervous systems that bear a superficial similarity to those of humans . he does n't say how he came up with these criteria , but they seem awfully generous to me . in fact , based on those criteria one would conclude that monkeys are capable of understanding spoken language and that humans are capable of echolocation . monkeys do in fact respond to certain vocalizations , and they have all the relevant physiological structures for understanding speech . and humans actually can echolocate ( with a lot of practice ) . the point is that you would never seriously compare human echolocation to bat echolocation , and the ability of monkeys to process speech is negligible relative to that of humans . could this also be true of the capacity for pain and suffering ? i do n't think anyone knows , and singer does n't shed any light on the subject . the next chapter is about animal testing , and a lot of the chapter deals with the use of animals in scientific experiments . this is the weakest part of the book . singer finds some of the most gruesome experiments in science history , and juxtaposes them with out-of-context quotes from the researchers to make it look like the research was useless . he mentions in passing that the vast majority of animal experiments do n't involve pain , but by the end of the chapter he suggests that all medical experimentation should eventually be stopped . part of his justification for ending medical experiments is the notion that such experiments do n't actually contribute to medical or scientific progress . this idea is unfortunately quite common among people who do n't know anything about medicine or science . however it 's completely incorrect , and most of singer 's arguments regarding the scientific value of animal testing have been completely debunked . for example , he continues to exploit the thalidomide tragedy , even though it was already known at the time the book was written that that incident was unrelated to animal testing . in addition to being totally confused about science , singer seems uncomfortable with the scientific method itself . he repeatedly suggests that animal testing should , in the short term , be limited to experiments that will lead to rapid advances in medical treatment . this is like saying you should look for your lost car keys where you left them . science does n't work this way . at one point ( p. 47 ) , singer complains about a series of experiments that were shown `` first to prove a theory , then to disprove the theory , and finally to support modified versions of the original theory . '' this probably sounds ridiculous to a philosopher , but it 's actually a pretty good description of the scientific method . the next chapter deals with factory farming , and here singer is on firmer ground . as in the previous chapter , there 's no philosophy , or even rational discourse . it 's just page after page of description , in this case of the conditions of animals on a large farm . however , in contrast to the chapter on experimentation , the conditions he describes are standard practice for the majority of farm animals . here it would seem that there 's plenty of room for improvement with comparatively minimal consequences for humans ( although i imagine the situation has only gotten worse since the publication of the second edition of the book in 1990 ) . the next chapter deals with vegetarianism , calling for a boycott of meat and dairy products . again the appeal is basically emotional , and if you were moved by the arguments of the preceding chapter , you will presumably find this chapter convincing . curiously singer does n't call for a similar boycott of medicine or medical treatment , even though the argument would be identical . even if you belief that animal experimentation is useless for human medicine , you have to admit that the purchase of such medicine directly pays for more animal research . anyone who 's receiving treatment for cardiac problems or diabetes , or who has ever had surgery , or who takes prescription drugs , is contributing to animal suffering . maybe singer deals with this in another book , but given the chapter on vegetarianism it 's a rather obvious omission . the next chapter is a strangely out of place history of human attitudes toward animals , going back several thousand years . it might have made sense to put this at the beginning of the book , but perhaps his editor was afraid of losing readers . the last chapter talks about some popular animal rights movements and their accomplishments . singer does n't draw any line between violent organizations like the animal liberation front ( which the fbi considers a terrorist organization ) and organizations that actually help animals in a peaceful way ( like the aspca ) . he speaks positively of peta , which in addition to other extremist activities , supports violence and arson . i do n't know why he would do this . ultimately this is a bad book . it trivializes a serious issue by substituting emotional imagery for rational argumentation . the fact is that humans can benefit greatly from actions that adversely affect animals . in the realm of science , there is no serious doubt that the length and quality of human life have been improved through animal testing . with other behaviors , such as meat-eating , the benefits are more subjective and the suffering is probably greater . how we assign weight to these costs and benefits is a very difficult question that singer does n't even attempt to take seriously