europe is so wonderful ! so picturesque ! ( too bad it 's inhabited by all those europeans . ) in 1990 bill bryson set out to `` do europe '' . he says that his motivation was to relive his experiences from tours in europe in 1972 and 1973 when he was a young student wandering around europe with a backpack . in reality it seems as if the primary reason for bill bryson to do this trip was so that he could then write a funny book about the trip . `` neither here nor there '' is , in fact , a very funny book , at least in the beginning . bill bryson can describe situations in a very humorous way , and he 's willing to make fun of himself , as well as everything around him . unfortunately , after a while the humor wears thin . then it wears very thin . then you begin to dissect the humor , and realize that you 've been had . bill bryson 's method of traveling is to emulate the kind of tourism we all like to ridicule . he typically arrives by train in a new city in the evening . he has no hotel reservation so he has to spend time finding a hotel that is not really what he wanted . he sees `` the sights '' that one is supposed to see in that city . he makes no effort to get in touch with the local people , to learn about their lives , or to understand their country and society . he spends typically 2-3 days in each city and then goes to work on figuring out how to get to the next city or country on his list , which often leads to further complications . this is obviously not the way to travel if you 're writing a travel book . nobody in their right mind would want to read about this kind of traveling . but bill bryson is not writing a travel book , he 's writing a funny book , and he has a sure-fire recipe : 1 . do things in problematic ways , and then make fun of all the trials and tribulations that result . 2 . mix in lots of flashbacks to the trips of your youth , with much juvenile humor related to the drives that young men are so driven by . 3 . feign incomprehension about everything foreign and satirize everything that is unfamiliar . 4 . make funny remarks intended to reinforce national prejudices . this last type of humor can be especially tiring . here are a few examples to illustrate what i mean : `` let 's face it , the french army could n't beat a girls ' hockey team . '' ( pg 32 ) `` the ( german ) women still do n't shave their armpits . ... they all look so beautiful and stylish , and then they lift up their arms and there 's a brillo pad hanging there . '' ( pg 91 ) `` in norway , three people and a bottle of beer is a party ; in sweden the national sport is suicide . '' ( pg 97 ) `` but the most preposterous law of all , a law so pointless as to scamper along the outer reaches of the surreal , is the swedish one that requires motorists to drive with their headlights on during the daytime . '' ( pg 110 ) `` i love the way the italians park . you turn any street corner in rome and it looks as if you 've just missed a parking competition for blind people . '' ( pg 123 ) in conclusion , if you 're someone who `` did europe '' in your youth and you want to relive fond memories in a humorous way , then you may well like this book . most other readers will probably start out laughing , then smiling , then wondering why the jokes seem to have lost their appeal , and finally ending up wishing they 'd picked a real travel book or a real humorous book . rennie petersen ps . just for the record , here is a list of the places covered : norway ( hammerfest , oslo ) , france ( paris ) , belgium ( brussels , bruges , spa , durbuy ) , germany ( aachen , cologne , hamburg ) , holland ( amsterdam ) , denmark ( copenhagen ) , sweden ( gothenburg , stockholm ) , italy ( rome , naples , sorrento , capri , florence , milan , como ) , switzerland ( brig , geneva , bern ) , liechtenstein , austria ( innsbruck , salzburg , vienna ) , yugoslavia ( split , sarajevo , belgrade ) , bulgaria ( sofia ) , turkey ( istanbul )