history of google , not search engines though i 'm coming to a review of the search a year too late , i can explain why . i bought the book on its release , very excited to read some good journalism about the hottest business topic of the day . i was sure that battelle , who had been chronically his progress on the book on his own blog , would deliver . halfway through the book ( in a matter of three days - a possible sign pointing to its lack of depth ) i 'm realizing that this is not the case . thus far , i have two major gripes with the book . the first is the writing itself . the book is written in informal magazine style , in keeping with his roots as a `` cutting edge '' technology writer ( having worked for wired and business 2.0 , magazines that try desperately to be `` too cool for the room '' ) . this would be fine enough , except that battelle has a habit of jumping around from year to year , talking about decisions made by players in google 's history before he actually introduces them . he never fully explains why it was important for sergey brin and larry page - google 's founders - to resign their chairman and ceo posts , nor does he tell the reader what their new titles are . battelle also has a habit of reintroducing people several times , a practice which at times seems a cheap way to up his page count . his writing style thoroughly muddles however much thoughtfulness there was to his project . i considered keeping a tally of how many times he used `` well '' as an interjection , but lost interested after i ran out of fingers . on page 150 he discusses a lack of managerial prowess on the part of brin , page and new ceo eric schmidt . according to battelle , one of google 's investors , john doerr , insisted that intuit founder bill campbell come on as a leadership coach . battelle uses an anecdote from journalist john heilemann 's gq article on google , which quotes doerr as saying , `` i do n't know where the company would be without him . '' however , battelle does n't include any of his own reporting on what campbell actually did . neglecting to explain right away what this `miraculous ' shift was is , in my own journalistic view , irresponsible . not to mention that he does n't include the actual title of heilemann 's article in either the main book or the citations . later in the book on page 172 , he tries to play the role of not only a technology writer , and search historian , but also media theorist and critic , waxing about how google ought to be considered a media company - not just a technology company . in the book 's final chapter , battelle introduces the idea of having several different kinds of information contribute to `` perfect search , '' including every tech writer and journalist 's favorite idea , the blog . he bulldozes through a description of the blog and later posits that we have reached the critical mass point , `` but we do n't know it yet . '' i suspect that battelle means that he 's savvier than users and other writers and he knows something we do n't , but he does n't explain why he thinks we 've reached the tipping point , nor what that means in the overall discussion of what the blog can do . though battelle tries to play his book as a `` history of search , '' it is nowhere near as comprehensive as such a book must be . it is a book that sings the praises of google , nothing more . however , that the book is a history of google is fine . the company certainly is interesting and large enough to warrant an historical account and battelle ought to be forthcoming with his intent . the short discussions he does include of the company 's search engine precursors such as lycos and alta-vista need considerable expansion and deserve to be considered as more than also-rans , if he really wants to be considered the historian of search and not just google 's unofficial corporate historian .