a blatant attack on islam on the basis of deliberate lies , misquotations and twisting of the facts if there is one thing that rings true of the editor 's review , it 's that robert spencer is `` lawyerly '' - but not in the sense the editor meant , rather in the sense that he deliberately twists the facts in order to argue his case despite the facts . this book is full of misquotations of the sayings of muhammad ( ahadith ) , and they are obviously deliberate as mr. spencer has taken the time to research the ahadith and yet still makes enormous errors in his rendering of them . he spends a considerable amount of time quoting from the bible and comparing his interpretation of the christian doctrine ( which i would guess a great many christains will have issue with , as well ) with what he claims to be the message of islam . he also spends a great deal of time attempting to assassinate the personality of muhammad with the argument that muhammad is the role model for all muslims - hence by assasinating this personality he hopes to assasinate the character of islam and all muslims . despite his opening claim that he is not targeting all muslims , the goal of his book , really , is to draw suspicion upon every muslim in america from their non-muslim neighbors . his basic premise that islam in essence is a falsehood and that all muslims have deceived themselves with a backward and dated belief system that has failed to evolve , as he puts it , as christianity has evolved from its backwardness by reducing the bible to strictly metaphorical meanings . the crux of his arguement is that christianity is able to do this , because , as christian scholars have shown , the bible is in fact not the direct word of god , but the quran , on the other hand , is taken by muslims as the direct , revealled word of god and hence there is little or no room for the religion to be re-interpreted . if one reads ( or listens , in the case of the audio book ) carefully , though , it will not be hard to find the many instances in which mr. spencer contradcits himself . all in all , it does read like a lawyer making his case in court , where it is islam itself that is on trial . mr. spencer seems to be trying to establish that the likes of osama bin laden are in fact only following the letter of their religion , and hence islam is a danger to be feared and reacted to preemtively . mr. spencer seems to have strong political and religious motivations and is a far cry from his claim of being unbiased