massive , barely edited compendium of sometimes tantalizing stories dr. steven greer is a well-known figure on the fringe of ufology , and he claims to have `` briefed '' senior government figures on the ufo issue , but five minutes with this book reveals why few take the issue seriously . it 's an amateurish , sometimes incoherent clip job of unedited , free-flowing interviews with dozens of scientists , pilots and former government/military figures , most of whom say they experienced a highly strange ufo episode ( though some of the `` testimony '' is second-hand ) . the firsthand stories can be very interesting and provocative , especially when they purport to cover the government 's secrecy , suppression and disinformation techniques . but any impact the content might have is pretty much overshadowed by the hard fact that `` disclosure '' is a disorganized , misspelled , contradictory , somrtimes unintelligible , incoherent mess . it 's not even `` written '' in the strict sense -- it appears to be a bunch of interview transcripts hurriedly set in type , not subjected to so much as a simple spell-checker . names and geographic locations are mangled , punctuation is absent , and the speakers ' weird allusions are left hanging . it 's hundreds of pages long , but it feels like the world 's biggest high school social studies project . the one consistent stylistic point is that dr. greer 's name or initials appear over and over and over again -- nobody ever accused him of missing self-promotion opportunities -- but the amateurish nature of the production is a net negative mark against him . it 's a mess . in a foreword greer says the material was/is so urgent , because it deals with the future of the entire human race , etc. , that it had to be rushed into publication . i would like to think the definitive word on the future of the entire human race will be spelled right and look like it came from grown-ups . tragically disorganized efforts like `` disclosure '' warm the hearts of the disinformation masters , i 'm sure , because the ufo movement hangs itself with this kind of stuff -- or at least consigns itself to eternal fringe status . it 's a serious subject and it deserves serious coverage , but `` disclosure , '' for all the nuggets of interest it contains , helps guarantee that the subject wo n't be taken seriously for the foreseeable future .