a not-so-practical guide to new urbanism the suburban landscape of the united states is the subject of this book , advertised as `` the first practical guide to creating communities that truly are communities-not merely enclaves near off-ramps . '' guided by the principles of the congress for the new urbanism ( cnu ) , the book uses excerpts from that organization 's charter to illuminate its advocacy of more connected development patterns . the book 's scope extends beyond the commercial strip to include the major building blocks of towns and suburbs , such as apartment complexes , schools , parks and office campuses . hall and porterfield includes passages of fist-thumping suburbia-bashing similar to james howard kunstler 's home from nowhere ( 1998 , touchstone books ) or jane holtz kay 's asphalt nation ( 1997 , crown ) . they also include graphic material , much of it adapted their earlier book , a concise guide to community planning ( 1994 , mcgraw-hill ) . readers knowledgeable about new urbanism will find few surprises here , other than a few glaring factual errors , like a reference to `` tyson 's corners , virginia , one of the largest metropolitan areas in the united states '' ( p. 7 ) and a claim that edge cities and urban villages are `` two names for essentially the same thing '' ( p. 210 ) . good points crop up here and there , but recommendations are so limited in scope that it can be difficult to discern whether the sample site designs are intended to be good or bad examples , which limits the book 's usefulness pedagogically . the lack of dimensions on most of the drawings also severely limits the book 's utility as a practical reference . hall and porterfield contrast `` conventional suburban development '' and `` traditional neighborhood development '' options for site plans , but the comparisons sometimes seem forced and nearly always ignore the larger regional issues so critical to the debate . one ideal audience for this book might suburban planning commissioners , who need guidance from designers in order to understand the differences between conventional suburban development pods and walkable , human-scaled neighborhoods .