not a good detective ! being a long-time nancy drew collector , i really looked forward to reading this book , but i found it to be very disappointing . i 've read a lot of the 'tart-noir ' wacky-gal mystery series , and this book seems to have all the standards - sexy , ditzy gal who just ca n't seem to get it all together , hunky boyfriend , obsession with glamorous flashy clothes , the need to keep secrets from the police , and on and on . but cece caruso just does n't come off with any realism to me . she 's too over-the-top , and she 's not even a good detective . by her own admission , over and over throughout the book , she keeps missing the point , and the clues , and everything else that would lead her to understand what 's going on and solving the mystery . cece is a biographer of mystery writers and in this book she is writing a book about carolyn keene , the author of the nancy drew books who was and still is a group of ghostwriters . there is a lot of nancy drew collecting info in this story that was , for the most , taken from some speculative fan-made guides , honored by some collectors as the truth but frowned upon as hypothetical by the rest of the bibliographic world . it also seems the author made up some of her own . her depiction of nancy drew collectors at their annual convention in palm springs is really unflattering . believe me , they are not the strange , nerdy , boring people she makes them out to be . for some reason she found it necessary to compare their boring get-together with a wild swinging convention of golf-fan lesbians at the same hotel . it 's disappointing that the first major piece of fiction published about nancy drew collecting and nancy drew collectors is such a mediocre book that plods along for the most going this way and that in directions that lead nowhere or that cece just does n't 'get ' . her obsessions with vintage clothes , gourmet foods , alcoholic beverages , art , and on-again-off-again boyfriend are all pretty interesting , but she and her gang need more characterization , and need to be a little less fabulous-in-every-way to be believable . nancy drew fans who read this book will probably be disappointed . it 's less about nancy and more about cece and friends and how 'hot ' and 'cool ' and too-fabulous-to-be-true they are . let 's hope the next author who takes on the nancy drew mystique will give it a more interesting treatment