i lost chromosomes reading this book ! i do n't know what to say about this book . it is the single worst book i have ever read in my young life . i feel like i 've witnessed a horrible tragedy and am at a loss for words to describe it . i would say at some point in the book , maybe about halfway , every line of dialogue , every characterization , every plot point , is absolutely terrible . this book is truly an offense to literacy , and i can not understand how a publisher of any merit or author could publish and print this trash . i can only imagine that robin cook either allowed a child to write this book , or was chronically drunk while writing it . either that or he has lost his faculties altogether . i have read children 's essays that have been better written . while it would take a novel to explain all the problems with this book , the highlights are : -knowing the mystery 50 pages into the book and being forced to painfully watch the dumb characters discover the mystery -cliche mania with lines like , `` i going to get to the bottom of this mystery '' and when the character 's discover something , giving each other high-fives . -racist remarks about blacks living in harlem about how they like to steal televisions , own guns , and play basketball . -stereotype characters such as mafioso that like to eat spaghetti and named dominick and vinny . -incredible suspension of disbelief when the heros , nyc coroners , fly off to africa on a moments notice because they want to finish their case of a dead body . ( also paying for their friends to come too ) -wandering around the main installation easily where the evildoers are working , and asking questions , and getting answers to them real easy . -incredible annoying characters that make inappropriate jokes . ( i.e . making sarcastic remarks to a guy holding a gun on them ) -the book spirals into total madness in the last 50 pages to a beyond implausible ending . i got a sense whoever wrote the end of book was on sleeping pills when he wrote it . if anyone thinks this book is better than two stars , they need their head examined .