disappointing and overly optimistic well , i 'd love to read a good book by that title and one might even copy the blurb texts and the table of contets of woodhouse 's book - all its weaknesses are in the fine print , so to say . the paradigm wars the title refers to are meant to take place between & quot ; traditional & quot ; ( mechanistic , etc . ) science and & quot ; new age & quot ; ( holistic , etc . ) world views , which present levels of complexity not available to the traditional approaches . no doubt such a war takes place presently ... ( 1 ) it 's an obvious problem that the & quot ; new & quot ; paradigm is conceptualized as being open and unfinished - together with the author 's desire to appropriate all nice and interesting recent scientific developments for his side , one may at times wonder what the & quot ; new paradigm & quot ; is and what limits it necessarily must have . ( 2 ) woodhouse limits is attention more or less to academic debate - but that 's not primarily where the wars are being fought . ( does he think it really matters ? the climate in academic institutions may depend on quite a number of factors beside rational arguments ... ) the bullets fly right in our everyday life situatios - when we see our physician and argue about a treatment ( which may or may not be paid by health insurance depending on the influence that & quot ; traditional scientists & quot ; ( aka drug manufacturers and their lackeys ) have on the insurance firm ) . it also takes place in firms striving for enhanced effectiveness in the form of the question & quot ; will it be possible to make our employees work harder - or should we consider something new altogether ? & quot ; . and it takes many more forms one does not even find mentioned in this book . ( 3 ) on the fronts of these wars i know , the situation looks rather bleak for new approaches . traditional doctrines are well entrenched and have lots of powerful allies - economic shorttermism advocating & quot ; tried and true & quot ; measures , traditional health providers , genetic engineering firms , religious institutions producing cult scares from time to time , etc . if you advocate divergent paradigms , you need a lot of patience - and you 're also faced with some serious problems woodhouse does not mention . let me point here only to the fact that while publicly recognized & quot ; sciences & quot ; have something like a memory in terms of libraries and institutional continuity , & quot ; new age thought & quot ; all to often starts all over again , repeats its standard arguments and , in sum , does n't get anywhere for lack of such a continuity , for lack of references one could build on . altogether , i 'm sorry for the money and for the time i spent on this book . still , someone should write a better one ... - it 's a worthy project , just a faulty implementation