ruined by its ignorance of female sexuality i found this book embarrassing to read - not because it 's risque , but because it so clearly illustrates how the french & italians got their reputations as great lovers . is this the best that english literature can give us ? this fellow clearly understands little of female anatomy , let alone female sexuality . it 's also mean-spirited . lawrence proves his points by setting up his version of idealized man and even more idealized woman , and then spends most of the book trying to knock down every other character and concept . this is his only real method of proving the superiority of his ideal . he drips way too much contempt . everything outside of sex is dumb , meaningless , ridiculous . attempting to derive enjoyment from the `` mental life '' makes one ridiculous ; being paralyzed makes one ridiculous ; trying to have sex in any way outside lawrence 's own true and correct way makes one pathetic , or defective , or spiteful ; not being able to enjoy the sort of lovemaking lawrence proposes makes one undeserving of the title of `` woman '' or `` man '' ; and so on . looking at italian art is stupid . everything in paris is stupid . constance can apparently tell from a glance that nobody in france knows how to have sex properly . reading the book without his openly contemptuous commentary on what 's `` wrong '' with everyone except c. and m. , one might easily conclude that constance does n't really seem happier now that she 's sleeping with the gamekeeper , and hilda does seem happier in venice - the author counters this by ridiculing `` that kind '' of happiness as delusional and druglike . he even seems to imply that her being so pleased with her life is yet more proof that there 's something wrong with her . of course constance is wretched , because she does not have that one thing that , in lawrence 's view , really matters in life - not mellors , but mellors ' equipment . this book does degenerate into phallus-worship , which makes the author 's hostility toward `` druglike '' pleasures seem sort of ironically comical . hilda is pathetic precisely because she can derive enjoyment from sensual pleasures : from venice , from the feel of the sun , from jazz , from dancing . this seems weird to me - as if lawrence is punishing the uppity woman . hilda is also described as worse than pathetic - she is a `` user '' , with strong suggestions that she is cold and immoral - because she enjoys that part of dancing which allows her to press up against a strange man , only to walk away when the dance is over . ( this may be why at least one reviewer called the book sexist , since obviously lawrence does n't mind if mellors is callous and behaves as a `` user '' . ) it 's actually sort of creepy how an author who seems to be claiming that sensuality is good consistently knocks sensual pleasures like the feel of sunshine on one 's body . everything is stupid except sex - and not just any sex , but his notion of real sex . this is where astute readers will have the most trouble . lawrence clearly defines a `` real '' woman - constance chatterly - by contrasting her with bad examples . a woman who lays there `` unfeeling '' is clearly an example . such a woman is described in terms suggesting she lacks warmth/decency/heart/womanhood/etc . lawrence does n't even seem to have considered the possibility that maybe what the man is or is n't doing could even be related ; it 's presented quite clearly as a difference between good/desireable women vs. women who are defective not only physically , but in character . on the other hand , a woman with an unfeminine urge to be in control - that is , one who insists on moving herself , rather than sitting passive and letting the man do what he will - is forgivable when michaelis is the male ( because he 's premature , and meant to be pathetic ) , but it turns unforgiveable when it 's women in general and especially mellor 's bertha , who just refused to come when she should out of spite . bertha just had a sick ( ! ) urge to be in control , demonstrating her essentially vicious and pathological nature . the only thing mellors did wrong was to not put her in her place promptly - he `` spoilt '' her . as for all those touchy-feely things that women so frequently enjoy ? forget it . lawrence suggests that mellors does at least sometimes kiss and touch , but if it happens at all it appears to be mostly incidental , nothing important . a real woman does n't need foreplay . just hop on and go , and if she 's what she ought to be , she 'll feel crashing waves and dark tides sooner or later . these were what i found the most embarrassingly inaccurate - that a woman 's duty is to lie there , not too passive , but not too active , and come when she 's supposed to ( and if she does n't , it 's her own fault ) ; while a man 's job is to climb on top and `` perform '' . all of this is based on what ought to be a perfectly logical set of assumptions that are , unfortunately , not true . the truth is that a woman 's vagina is not the equal-but-opposite inverse of a male penis ; there 's a thing that both males and females start out with , which in a man becomes the penis , and in the woman becomes ( or remains ) a clitoris . lawrence seems to assume that what a woman feels is similar to what a man feels - but he assigns this feeling to the wrong body part . women have always known about their own bodies ; surely a man so dedicated to the advancement of sexuality could have and should have taken more time to research how women really feel about things , preferably apart from what women think men `` want to hear '' . this , too , is no doubt why it has been accused of being `` sexist '' . the author ( or at least mellors ) openly blames women who can not or will not `` come to the crisis '' when she ought , as if it were entirely of the woman 's doing and had nothing at all to do with the man . it 's also likely that science will eventually prove ( if it has n't already ) that women like constance chatterly are not the norm or 'what a woman ought to be ' emotionally as well as physically . for all that lawrence spends an awful lot of energy ripping apart what he sees as silly , even noxious emotions and desires - such as `` intimacy '' and `` connection '' , both of which he has constance openly ridicule - biologists are increasingly finding that not only do men and women tend to have different feelings and expectations when it comes to the sex act , but that there is believed to be an evolutionary advantage in these differences , based on the notion that a man 's biological job is to get his dna out there , while reproduction for a woman involves a heavy emotional and physical commitment . if this is true , it would be the woman who takes such a cavalier and reckless attitude toward sex who is the deviant , not the one who wants to connect emotionally with the future sire of her child . so - while there may or may not be women who feel as constance does , at the same time it 's not so clearly obvious that a woman `` should '' feel that way , as to justify lawrence 's open belittling of women whose emotional states do n't match masculine emotional detachment and distance . there 's a lot of talk of `` tenderness '' - in fact , constance keeps mentally accusing everyone in venice of somehow `` lacking tenderness '' - but quite frankly i am unclear on what exactly is supposed to be so tender . the only thing he values about her is that he quite clearly likes having sex with her , but even there she only stands out particularly because a good sex partner is so difficult to find . i can imagine a woman putting up with - but i can not imagine a woman particularly treasuring - a man who rebuffs her when she wishes to talk , who is rude to her instead of treating her as equal ( remembering she 's a lady ) when she asks him questions , who calls her c -- t as if that were her name , and generally treats her as if she were a whore . i could imagine a woman finding this fun if it were a game they jumped into and out of , but this is how their relationship really is ; she spends far too much time begging or wanting to beg him for reassurance - for the things he wo n't say and the questions he wo n't answer - for me to find her undiluted enjoyment in their relationship particularly credible . for what it 's worth , i think life will be better when this book has become obsolete . it is exactly this sort of schlock that had women feeling pressured to fake their sexual responses - at great cost to their marriages , if not their selves . those who agree that heppiness is linked to sexual satisfaction should be in favor of replacing this book with something that deals with sex in a way that reflects female sexuality in an honest and realistic fashion . as for those who just want a good read - i 'd call it a matter of personal taste . obviously some people enjoy this book . ( equally obviously , i did not .