useful drawings but worthless 'analysis' over the years ( decades actually ) , peter eisenman 's `` terragni '' took on something of the urban myth , an elusive , unpublished work , supposedly of great genius . draft copies were jealously hoarded by a few insiders adding to the myth . now , after 40 years , it appears in print , no longer only the stuff of legend , but an actuality exposed to real scrutiny . frankly , the wait has not been worth it . exhaustively drafted from every conceivable projection and angle , the images of the building are accompanied by a text ( a `critical text ' , the author repeatedly informs us ) , that pushes the limits only of the ridiculous . for example : the plan of the casa del fascio , eisenman `` discovers '' , is a square , or rather , almost a square . in order to satisfy eisenman 's supposition , the true square , it seems , is realized only when particular window is opened fully to the 90 degree position , thereby implying a volumetric extension of the building , which then completes the so-called purity of the geometry . the fact that other windows on other sides of the building might also be opened at the same time thereby undermining the purported geometrical purity , does not seemed to have occurred to the author so blinded is he by the supposed brilliance of this , the most pretentious of studies . numerous equally untenable speculations flesh out the remainder of this overwrought , but ultimately fruitless examination . terragni 's classical parti is studiously avoided by the author who is largely ignorant of the precepts that underlie this , the most basic formal arrangement that terragni carried through his design . eisenman stretches similar guesswork beyond the point of irritation as though insulting the intelligence of his readers is one of the underlying purposes of this book . in the architectural industry , asinine speculation , masquerading as theory or as philosophical inquiry , are now the norm . this particular book has been billed as peter eisenman 's `` eagerly awaited magnum opus '' . certainly the casa del fascio is deserving of study . however , if perchance `` giuseppe terragni : transformations , decompositions , critiques '' does achieve long-lasting fame , it can only be for becoming the late 20th century 's high water mark of architectural pretentiousness and unbounded historical ignorance . [ one star for the drawings ; zero stars for the text . ]