i would n't recommend this book ... lacks credibility . in his book , the four agreements , don miguel ruiz , embodies four principles for experiencing personal freedom in life . he says that we should be impeccable with our words , not to take anything personally , do n't make assumptions , and to always do our best . the basis for some of the agreements we make with ourselves stem from early childhood training through a series of rewards and punishments from our parents . he calls this process `` domestication '' ( p. 6 ) . ruiz says that 95 % of the beliefs we hold are nothing but lies and that most of our agreements are based upon the fear of rejection . the agreements that he gives are meant to free us from the emotional bonds that get in the way of our personal energy and to transform our lives . while there are various nuggets of truth throughout the book , some of it goes off into the abyss where he takes a thought and carries it to what i would consider to be to be an illogical conclusion . in some instances he uses biblical scripture to support his claims ; however , in looking further , he takes some of the passages from the bible out of context . some of his ideas are presented as if they were new ideas , but i would think most of us by a young age , should already an understanding of these principles . although his book has been highly rated , i hold the position that mr. ruiz lacks credibility and logic as a writer , therefore , losing good standing with me as a reader . according to ruiz , as children we are not given the opportunity to choose our own beliefs . when we go against the rules we are punished ( or rewarded for compliance ) . the fear of rejection leads us to agree with , or become something that we are not . in essence , we become a carbon copy of someone else , such as our parents . he says our normal tendencies are lost and we judge other people based upon these agreements . he boldly states , lacking statistical data to back it up , that 95 % of our beliefs are based upon a lie ( 13 ) . the implication is that we are merely nothing more than a society of mindless , `` domesticated '' individuals , hurting ourselves , judging and victimizing other people along the way . this kind of thinking negates the teachings associated with parenthood and the positive aspects they bring to our lives . by his interpretation , if 95 % of what we believe is a lie , then 95 % of what our parents taught us is also a lie . i would disagree . there are many people who exist today as viable , productive members of society who i 'm sure would point out they too became a copy of someone else 's beliefs and values . if these role models are only filling our heads with lies and teaching us how not to be ourselves , by his interpretation , we do n't need parents , teachers , or leaders . he undermines our personal paradigms and omits that as adults we do have the ability to choose a different path , which i believe is our right of passage . by his rational we lose the ability to choose our own destiny . instead , we become victims of it . one of the few things we agree upon is his first agreement , be impeccable with your word ; however , he misquotes the bible ( john 1:1 ) when he says `` in the beginning was the word and the word was with god , and the word was god . '' he uses it to epitomize the use of `` word '' as in what one speaks ( 26 ) . looking a little further down in that passage , it also says `` the word was made flesh and dwelt among us '' . this passage is not talking about a form of speech , or speaking , but rather `` jesus christ '' . christ became flesh and dwelt among us . in that same chapter he says that `` sin begins with rejection of yourself '' ( 31 ) . however , in christianity it says that sin is a transgression of the law ( 1 john 3:4 ) and that sin is neglecting to do god 's will ( james 4:7 ) . it 's not about self , but about disobeying god 's ordinances . while i agree that watching what we say is something we all need to strive for , this is not a new concept . most children have learned by the age of 6 that if you do n't have something nice to say , do n't say it at all . in his second agreement , do n't take anything personally ; he says that nothing people do is because of you . while this is true to some degree , he leads the reader down a path of illogical extremes when he says that even if someone took a gun and shot you in the head , it was nothing personal . so in essence , when mary jo buttafuoco was shot by amy fisher , her expression of displeasure regarding amy 's behavior was nothing more than a fundamental form of projection because according to ruiz `` you are dealing with yourself , not me '' ( 51 ) . no , realistically , mary jo buttafuoco was shot because amy fisher wanted her dead . this kind of logic encourages victims to remain in dysfunctional relationships and perpetrators to continue abusing victims . as an american , i 'm glad that someone took 9/11 personally . according to mr. ruiz he takes neither destructive nor constructive criticism . it seems arrogant to place myself so far above reproach , that i would turn a deaf ear to all forms of criticism . when my college writing professor , gave me his opinion regarding my work , if i were following the authors line of reasoning , i would believe that my professor was `` trying to poison my mind and was feeding me his emotional garbage '' as mr. ruiz suggests ( 49 ) . i would rather believe that my instructor has my best interests at heart and is seeking to teach me how to become a better writer . another agreement is about not making assumptions in life . he says when we make assumptions , in essence , we create unnecessary drama . unfortunately we live in a world where that is not entirely possible . assumption is a necessary part of a thought and reason ; even within the scientific community a hypothesis ( or assumption ) is formed in order to test a theory . in order come to school each day i must make assumptions that my instructor has a college degree , and that he or she must be reliable enough in life to make it to work everyday . in his forth agreement , always do your best , he claims it is based upon the actions of the other three agreements , stating they will only work if you do your best . again , these are fundamental principles that almost any child has learned . while ruiz does indeed present some viable ideas , his concepts begin to unravel when he does n't back up his statements with facts , but instead takes a basic concept and follows an illogical line of reasoning to reach his final conclusion . i ca n't completely discount everything that he says , but he lost credibility with me by some of his assumptions and weak rationalizations .