animal psychobabble i dislike writing negative reviews but i 'll make another exception here . my wife showed me this book one lazy saturday afternoon in a local bookstore . `` i want you to look at this . it was such a good idea but he messed it up so badly . '' this book should have developed real conjecture on the emotional lives of farm animals . it could have been a serious discussion of what we understand about animal emotions both positive and negative . it would have demonstrated how the natural farming movement has the potential to revolutionize animal husbandry and improve farm animal living conditions . should have , could have , would have ... it did n't . he apparantly intuits emotions from these creatures who at the very least do not speak his language and at the most are experiencing very different emotions than the ones he describes . doubtless he is gifted with superhuman intuitive ability from his years of analytic training ; us mere mortals would be unable to consistantly reproduce his observations . ( as a brief example look at the emphasis on eye expressions despite a lack of evidence for any real facial expression translatability across species lines . urban readers can not readily observe farm animals to verify this so i 'd suggest a trip to the local zoo to test my counter assertion . there , the most casual observer can see that a broad , friendly human smile will send an entire cagefull of monkeys into conniptions . why ? because many species of simians translate 'smile ' as 'teeth-baring dominence display ' . ) nevertheless i rated this book 2 stars instead of one , as there were a few interesting anectdotes interspersed amongst the verbage . ( edited to add a note about trembling cows . ) cows tremble when they are annoyed by flies . having no hands their first line of defence is their tail , but flies often land on shoulders and other body parts out of its limited reach . they tremble , shaking their skin to dislodge the pests . they shake their heads , sometimes violently . their eyes roll and they sometimes look like they 're going to fall over . i suppose it is convenient for the writer of this book that flies congregate where cows are penned together but more so that people have forgotten the 2000 year old story of io , hera and zeus .