well written blather although well written , this book is just left wing socialist blather . most egregiously in error is the author 's characterization of catholic social teaching . he wuld have us believe that the catholic church is all behind the us social welfare system . just one quote summarizes where the catholic church really is on this issue : `` in recent years the range of such intervention has vastly expanded , to the point of creating a new type of state , the so-called `` welfare state . '' this has happened in some countries in order to respond better to many needs and demands , by remedying forms of poverty and deprivation unworthy of the human person . however , excesses and abuses , especially in recent years , have provoked very harsh criticisms of the welfare state , dubbed the `` social assistance state . '' malfunctions and defects in the social assistance state are the result of an inadequate understanding of the tasks proper to the state . here again the principle of subsidiarity must be respected : a community of a higher order should not interfere in the internal life of a community of a lower order , depriving the latter of its functions , but rather should support it in case of need and help to coordinate its activity with the activities of the rest of society , always with a view to the common good . by intervening directly and depriving society of its responsibility , the social assistance state leads to a loss of human energies and an inordinate increase of public agencies , which are dominated more by bureaucratic ways of thinking than by concern for serving their clients , and which are accompanied by an enormous increase in spending . in fact , it would appear that needs are best understood and satisfied by people who are closest to them and who act as neighbors to those in need . it should be added that certain kinds of demands often call for a response which is not simply material but which is capable of perceiving the deeper human need . one thinks of the condition of refugees , immigrants , the elderly , the sick , and all those in circumstances which call for assistance , such as drug abusers : all these people can be helped effectively only by those who offer them genuine fraternal support , in addition to the necessary care . '' ( pope john paul ii , centessimus annus , 1991 ) i could give you a quote for every other case where the author misrepresents church teaching . the author assumes that poor people are poor because others have too much . this assumption is not shared by the catholic church . i am a conservative largely because of catholic social teaching .