not badly written , but ultimately preposterous toward the end of this novel , the lead character , reichs ' usual heroine tempe brennan , remarks on the `` remarkable coincidence '' of one of the plot points . by this point in the book , this is like pointing out to a rabid dog that it 's got some spittle on its chin . this book relies on coincidence so fundamentally that if it were removed , it would fall into 3 or 4 different books with little or nothing to do with one another . reichs is not a bad writer , and for someone who so clearly comes from a forensic background , is passably adept at character , plot and scene setting . she knows how to build suspense and intrigue , and never lets the technicalities of her lead character 's profession -- a forensic anthropologist -- or the intricacies of her work , undermine the story . this book centres on brennan 's investigation of a religious cult that perpetrates a set of murders . there are lots of interesting points about how cults work , ritual murder and even large group awareness programs get in on the action . and , of course , several forensic investigations where we are treated to the processes of digging up bones , collecting maggots and bugs , and examining various grim bits of the human body . what undermines this book is that the first half is at least three different , unrelated stories ; and the second is such a clumsy and outrageous merging of them into one , that one drifts from disinterest to incredulity . the jacket cover says this book is about the excavation of a 19th century nun 's bones , and the mysteries therewith . in fact , this is just story number 1 , which is of only tangential importance to the ultimate , main storyline . it is not obvious , even in terms of the world of death du jour , why reichs needed all this intermingling . it feels like she started writing a travel journal , then stuck a murder into each of her ports of call , then simply declared that they all belong to the same overarching plot . in this context , each individual story feels derivative , and the grand plot feels like a desperate trick . a well-written and , at times , interesting book , which is ultimately unsatisfying and preposterous