not the best book this book is about dave 's late high school years , while he was in the foster care system . this book talks about some friends that have helped him through some tough times . i thought this book would talk more about his experiences and feelings about the foster care system , which we were initially led to believe . but the book turned out to be more of a `` guy '' book , talking about his adventures and mishaps with his friends . this might be interesting to teenage boys , but for a broader audience , this book did n't seem as interesting . the experiences in foster care did n't really seem to come through as much . the book seemed to ramble on and on about certain points and seemed to go off in a tangent at times . as a result , the book became a little boring . i also did n't care for some of the foul language in the book , which to me , often detracts from the point that the book is trying to get across . about the review from the lady from new zealand ... it was not necessary to single me out in your review . the point of these reviews is to review the book , not the reviewers . secondly , i did not like the book . plain and simple . that is ok. not every book jives with everybody . i do n't feel that people who are grateful for the simple pleasures in life are boring . i said that the book itself was boring and to me , it seemed to lose focus . you do not have to agree with me , as i do n't agree with you . i am free to express my opinions on these books . and yes , i read `` lost boy '' , but the book initially led me to believe that it would have more in it about the foster care time period in dave 's life . you see , i was in 3 foster homes as a kid , and to me , reading about foster care experiences from other people is always interesting to me . so please , just focus your reviews on the books , not on the reviewers . i had a legitimate opinion on the book and i expressed it . i 'm sure i 'll lose helpful votes on what i 've just said to `` gingerwoman '' , but it 's important that we focus on reviewing books and not each other