more than dated ... more than human is one of those books that has garnered high praise from the science fiction community because of its strong prose and original ideas . the writing is often compared to that of faulkner but i would n't make that connection having read a few of faulkner 's works . sturgeon uses many of faulkner 's narrative trademarks ( i.e . streaming conscious , first person perspective of low iq individuals , disorienting changes in first person narrative ) but i did n't feel the net effect really compared to say something like as i lay dying . i love science fiction books and the readers in general love the genre which is why they want it to be taken seriously . this results in undue adulation and comparisons to mainstream books . more than human is slow , dated and not what i would describe as genre transcending nor would i recommend it to others . so the idea might of been original in the 50 's but topics like telekenesis , esp , computer-brain babies , and self produced morality and ethos have all been tackled more successfully in other science fiction classics before ( asimov ) and since . this book rarely set off that wow ! button in my head or kept me turning pages . this book simply did not have enough meat in it to make it anything more than mediocre at best . in 1953 there were 5 hugo award nominees for best science fiction book ( determined in a retro hugo award ballot in 2004 ) the retro hugo awards are fascinating because the voting ( in this example ) takes place 50 years later so the impact of the book on society ca n't really be ignored . besides more than human , the far superior the caves of steel , childhood 's end , and farenheit 451 were among the other entries in a banner year for classic sci-fi . needless to say , more than human did not win ( farenheit 451 did and rightfully so ) bottom line : i wanted to like this book and it does n't surprise me that others give it such high praise . these are probably people that do n't read other genres enjoy congratulatory wankfests