uss james b. stockdale , cvn-77 we all know repbulicans do n't care much for the environment , and now we 're chopping down trees to give more praise to a man whose son 's ambition is paid for with american lives . why was this book written ? are trhe bush-kochs suddenly strapped for cash ? the book , if you can focus on a father and daughter that are n't dripping with wealth and power , is good enough . i like ghwb , voted for him , but the lovefest is going way overboard . and as for the $ 500 billion dollar aircraft carrier ( the tenth and final nimitz-class supercarrier ) just commisioned and named after george , sr -- -it was absolutely wrong to do so . the man cvn-77 should have been named after is admiral james b. stockdale . admiral stockdale , a distinguished naval aviator and test pilot flight instructor , flew over 240 carrier-based missions , earned 28 combat decorations , and after being shot down over north vietnam in 1965 , spent 8 years as a p.o.w. , 4 years in leg irons , 2 years in complete darkness , tortured and beaten daily . it is amazing that he did n't go blind after 2 years in darkness , malnourished and sleeping on concrete . despite all of his pain , his primary concern was always the welfare of his fellow prisoners and that they received enough food and proper medical care . stockdale even organized a hunger strike when one prisoner was denied medical treatment . at one point , he knew that one of his fellow p.o.w.s was guilty of an infraction that would possibly lead to that prisoner 's execution . his captors knew stockdale knew who the guilty prisoner was , and tortured stockdale without mercy . knowing there would be more torture and fearful he would crack and give out the prisoner 's name , stockdale attempted suicide . rather than bear the thought of one of his fellow prisoners being executed or subjected to the pain that was inflicted on him , he tried to take his own life . stockdale 's suicide attempt was unsuccessful , yet in the attempt , was the ultimate statement about admiral james b. stockdale , that he would rather have died than see a fellow american soldier suffer pain or death at the hands of their captors . that maybe true about ghwb , but perhaps not so about our current president . adwarded the congressional medal of honor in 1976 , admiral stockdale died in july of 2005 . even ghwb would tell you that cvn-77 should have been named after admiral stockdale . why is n't that in your book , doro ? on october 7th , 3 days after your book was released , you christened the uss george h.w . bush , cvn-77 . it rained that day . so much so that the ceremony was closed to the public