i simply do n't understand ... ... i hate to be yet another naysayer here , but seriously ... .what is all the hype about these books ? my poor sister ( who for some reason loved them ) told me to read them , and i struggled for weeks to finish the first book in the series . normally , a book of eragon 's size and reading level would be devoured by me in less that a day or two . however , upon reading the first chapter , i was struck almost immediately by the choppy sentence structure . almost all the sentence were the same length . it was hard for me to read more than a chapter at a time because passages simply did not flow well at all . when i finally finished eragon , i thought that the second one had to be better , since it got published . i was dead wrong . both books had an incredibly boring story , derivative plot , unoriginal characters and setting ( also names stolen almost directly from tolkien ! ! ) , pedestrian language and writing style , wooden dialogue ( every character spoke with the same exact `` voice , '' none were really distinct from each other ) , and cliched expression after cliched expression . in eragon at least , the entire book was full of passages of `` purple prose . '' worst of all , the author only told and hardly ever showed the reader what the characters were feeling . speaking of characters , eragon sorely lacked both character description ( i did n't even know what murtagh was supposed to look like or how old he was until the book was almost over ) , and there was almost no character development whatsoever . i felt no emotional involvement and did n't care a thing for almost any of the characters . making the reader care about their characters is one of the most important things authors must do to create a meaningful story with emotional depth . for instance , if george r. r. martin can make me learn to love a traitorous villain who commits incest with his sister , then why ca n't i care about the `` perfect '' titular hero of these books ? ? ? believe me , i gave this series many chances to impress ... .and it failed . i love the idea of dragon riders ( a la the pern series ) and i thought the character of saphira had some good things about her . being a linguist , i love the idea of language having a deep , abiding power of its own ( which has also been done a la tolkien and le guinn ) , but the things in this story just felt like a boy 's fantasy daydream , down to the sexy elf chick in tight leather of all things . just because someone is young and writes a novel does not make said novel good nor does it make said novelist a prodigy . i truly think that the only reason either of these books were published in the first place is because paolini 's parents were the ones who published them . my apologies if my rant offends anyone , i 'm just a little upset that i spent so long plodding through this only to find that it did not improve . normally when i read a book , i can tell its good because of the shivers of excitement i feel while devouring page after page . that quality is the main thing that was missing from paolini 's works . i truly hope he has a chance to improve his writing over time .