big trouble starts early on interesting experimental fiction . in big trouble , barry employs the technique of shifting protagonists so well that in the end the reader is n't sure who the story is about . characters are abandoned with abandon and neglected through carelessness , leaving a laser sharp focus on what the novel is really about -- which is not the psychodelic frog . it 's something less original . the genre is also well disguised . is it a comedy or a thriller ? if a novel is funny , can we take the thriller part seriously enough ? in some cases , yes . when , for example , the comedy is built on clever dialogue by characters truly capable of mayhem . in this case , no . it 's a little jarring when a comic cop is traveling around , chained to an entertainment center , while a teenage girl is in the clutches of a sex-oriented crazy . in all fairness , the novel does feature a ticking clock , which is handy to have in a thriller . it 's more effective if there is something believable about the story . i expected a novel with an overdose of silliness , but i was spared that , which was a plus . no characters with absurdly meaningful names . the nuts and bolts aspect of writing was competently performed . while there was little depth to any characters , that 's probably less of a requirement for characters we want to laugh at . the characters could have used some personality , but that 's a common flaw . the novel should have been funny in places , for a list of situations would show some potential . but i had no difficulty keeping a straight face throughout . others would disagree . the politically incorrect portrayal of miami was entertaining , if not actually funny . the overall effect of reading big trouble is to bring about a yearning for the days when an editor would say , `` sir , i know your name is a household word , and i know we could make money on whatever you write , but i have to turn down too many good novels to give a green light to ... to something like this . '' if there ever were such days .