the bottom line : the 3bl fad promises more than it delivers triple bottom line ( 3bl ) accounting promises to keep score of `` people , profits , and planet '' -- meaning that it enables a company to measure not only its financial results , but also its environmental , and social impact as well . it is , to be sure , a very good idea for companies to pay attention to their impact on the environment and to the contribution they make to their community and to society at large . and in business , what gets measured gets done -- so what is not to like about triple bottom line thinking ? at one level , there is nothing not to like . it is a minor fad and a fairly low nuitrition fad at that . there is nothing wrong with the occassional bite of ice cream -- but that hardly recommends it as a diet . there are two problems with 3bl , and this book glosses over or ignores both of them . the first problem is one of measurement . we can measure financial result with standard accounting tools . this is not pure science and as with any performance measurement system , some people cheat -- but we know what cheating is and what results we are trying to measure . moreover , we have a common unit of currency -- money . there is no comparable way to measure environmental or social impact . quick example : a company that is passionate about its 3bl principles recently explained to me how they were avoiding dumping excess product into landfill by donating it to needy africans . they proudly gave themselves environmental credit for avoided landfill and social credit for a donation . problem is , the africans do n't want this stuff , so they dump it in their own landfills . the program is completely wasteful , but the company tells its employees and customes that it is a 3bl business . social and environmental accounting are in any case not new . the global reporting initiative ( gri ) , the sa 8000 from social accountability international , the aa 1000 from accountability , as well as parts of various iso standards are all efforts by international agencies or accounting firms to report non-economic aspects of company behavior . 3bl contributes nothing to this beyond packaging -- and occassionally misleading packaging at that . andy savitz seems like a capable and well-meaning guy . but his book is built on a caricature of the corporation as a greedy , self-interested monolith . unfortunately , the new thinking he brings to 3bl is n't very good -- and the good thinking is n't very new