no wonder his wife is friendly with the prisoners this is the story of sheriff bell , an insufferable dullard who wo n't shut up about how criminals these days are really evil ( as opposed to all the lovely ones he knew of when growing up ? ) . he 's also a world-class boaster , never going more than a few pages without telling us how fantastic is wife loretta is . the same loretta who spends most of her time baking for or writing to evil criminals -- which tells me all i need to know about that marriage . the yakkity-yakking does n't stop there . an even bigger gas-bag is chigurh , the motor-mouthed murderer . in fact , he kills people twice . before he shoots 'em , he bores 'em to death . his weapon of choice : lectures about coins . ( his final kill took so long , i had to restrain myself from flingling the book across the train carriage . ) on the technical front , mccarthy does not structure the drama in the classical way . he chose the boring way . the majority of scenes end exactly as you expect and only one character ( moss ) has a believable goal . mccarthy also omits the obligatory final scene , between chigurh and his prey moss , which was the only reason i kept reading the book . no doubt this is to defy the expectations of the reader . expectations that this might turn out to be a decent story , in my case . what 's more , sheriff bell has no scenes with either chigurh or moss , making him a narrator with zero personal stake in the action . because mccarthy writes good , visual dialogue , he gets away with an inconsequntial narrator for the first half of the story . but when the man on the run ( moss ) exits the story , there is no other character to invest in , so the plot grinds to a halt . mccarthy can not resusitate it because there is no connection whatever between the two remaining main players . so , does mccarthy put us out of our misery ? no . sheriff bell waffles on for pages and pages about vietnam , not unlike john goodman 's character walter in the big lebowski . and that 's it . my verdict : i hope loretta runs away with a criminal . preferably one of them new evil ones