i caught a fish , this big ! in let freedom ring , sean hannity sends out the subliminal message that he and his writing are about truth , justice , and the american way . just the title represents everything true and good about him and america . for his five-star reviewers his message reinforces their pre-conceived beliefs and hannity 's words are the validation of those beliefs . if this was written by a ghost writer , he should have withheld payment . if it was n't written by a ghostwriter , hannity should have one for his next attempt at literary hyperbole . the first chapter is written in a maudlin , `` those-were-the-good-old-days '' wistfulness of his immigrant grandfather who he describes as an honest man of integrity , and a believer in the american dream . but before you can say `` erin go braugh '' he is talking about the courage of george w. bush for standing up to terrorism . exactly how g.w . does , he does n't elaborate . how he goes from grandfather to dubbya is a bit of magic . hannity 's next trick is to impugn clinton and gore as being soft on terrorism . his source for this is , of all people , dick morris who knew the clintons and now works for the fox republican advocacy network . he quotes morris who makes such vague statements as `` it seemed they were afraid of talking about terrorism , '' or `` they seemed to be indifferent to terrorism . '' these `` morris mind-reads '' are conjectural , but hannity uses them , which he does with impunity . let 's take a closer look at hannity 's unimpeachable source for a moment . it was dick morris who quit the clintons shortly after the second election . it was morris who had a penchant for streetwalkers , did some jail time , and entered alcohol rehab . you 'd think sh could find a better source if he expects freedom to ring ! but , hannity does n't skip a beat . he points out how democrats such as senators kerry and daschle voted against certain defense-spending bills . what he neglects to inform his readers are the reasons they did because of riders that were attached to the bills , or the number of republicans who also voted against the same bills , or the many defense bills that kerry and daschle did vote for . he never once advises his reader of the defense spending programs that were killed by dick cheney when he was secretary of defense . such deception is called propaganda . propaganda is something that hannity has no compunction using here . this he does in continuing to tell a tale that has long since been debunked . namely , it is the story of president clinton being offered osama bin laden by the sudanese government . again , it 's what he does n't say that misdirects the reader . sudan made the offer in the hope of having the economic sanctions against them for slave-trading , lifted . however , the fbi determined that the sudanese were playing us because they had neither the ability nor the intent of handing over bin laden . the sudanese also made the offer to saudi arabia , but the saudis had revoked bin laden 's citizenship , and refused to take him . benjamin franklin said `` statistics is a liar . '' hannity uses charts for the same purpose . he shows how under reagan , the army bought over 500 tanks . under clinton , the army bought none . this leads one to the assumption that clinton did nothing for the services . he does n't mention that the army buys tanks , not presidents . he does n't mention the army had all the tanks they needed for armored warfare against the soviet union that never came . he does n't mention that the army began changing its warfare strategies which would include more transportable fighting vehicles . be grateful that hannity can not rewrite famous works of literature as he attempts to do with history . if he could , instead of seeing a dead captain ahab being killed by the whale in `` moby dick , '' we might just see a grinning captain standing next to a tethered whale with the caption : `` i caught a fish this big ! '' there 's something very fishy about his facts , his historical parallels which are n't parallel , and what he chooses to tell you , and what he chooses to leave out . in this book , he tells whale-sized whoppers !