not impressed searching for caleb had a new setting every five pages , family members who walked out and would n't have come back until they were `` kidnapped '' , and chaotic events that led to a suicide , all of which made this book interesting in an unusual way . this book is first set on a train going to new york city in the year of 1972 . then the scene changes to cairo mill , maryland . suddenly it changes to baltimore , maryland in the 1800 's . a bit later it changes to baltimore in 1980 . anne tyler told most of the story in maryland , but at the end , she changes to louisiana . the story was about the peck family , which was a very sophisticated family . wealthy , respectable , self-involved , they always wore hats . even the little girls never went out of the house without a hat on . basically the story was about daniel peck 's search for his brother , caleb , who walked off in 1912 . it was also about his granddaughter justine peck 's realization that she will never be the peck that she always dreamed to be . the concept of this book , then , is finding oneself . daniel peck 's main conflict was evident in his search for caleb . when caleb was in his twenties he just walked out on the family and did n't return or make contact with any family member . the search started when daniel moved in with duncan and justine peck . daniel spent years researching and visiting people who might have known caleb . he would visit people that were caleb 's friends or appeared in pictures with caleb . unfortunately , he had absolutely no luck . so when daniel 's birthday came , his oldest son `` two '' hired him a private investigator to search for caleb . the private investigator headed straight to work asking questions . he found out that when caleb was younger all one would have to do to find caleb was `` hold still a minute and listen . '' he found out how caleb loved music . he also went searching to caleb 's home in baltimore . then the private investigator learned where caleb was just outside of new orleans , louisiana . the private investigator told the pecks this but before daniel could meet caleb , daniel died of a heart attack . this book was draining yet funny ; mostly draining . the hardest part was keeping track of what part the story was in , whether the past or the present . also the peck family was absolutely insane . actually two cousins ended up married to each other . that caused so much chaos that a separation , a disowning and a suicide happened over the event . then justine and duncan were constantly moving because duncan would become restless and wanted a change . justine just went along very easily but meg , their daughter , hated moving . she locked herself in the bathroom a few times . daniel did not begin looking for his brother for practically 30 years after caleb walked out . the comical parts were the best . for instance , all the time that daniel was searching for caleb his old maid knew right where caleb was . when caleb left , he had told her where he was going . yet she never told anyone because no one ever asked her . in addition , duncan would cut out newspaper clippings and stick them to things . to the old ford that the door was torn off he stuck a clipping that said `` would n't you rather have a buick ? '' . when meg bought an expensive dress , his cut out was `` have you ever had a bad time in levi 's ? '' one of justine 's neighbor was divorced and the father of her child who had no visiting rights would come and take the daughter . the mother would scream and shout about her daughter being kidnapped , yet every night the father brought the child home safe and sound . this book was very interesting , but a strange kind of interesting . it never really caught my attention ; rather it often put me to sleep . it was summer reading , the kind you get on a book list . i would suggest it to people if they did n't really have anything else to read . but some will like it . i found it too scattered in place and time and too slow moving .