buyer beware ( note : taijiquan = tai chi chuan = taiji ) if you 're familiar with the writings of wong kiew kit he often states that you ca n't learn genuine martial arts like taijiquan and shaolin kung fu from a book . you need to learn from a master because there are too many subtleties that will be missed without a proper instructor . so when wong kiew kit states that : `` i have no taijiquan lineage . i did not learn from any well-known living taijiquan masters . i mainly learned from taijiquan classics , and was able to interpret and practice what past masters had written because of my thorough shaolin training . '' http : //wongkk.com/answers/ans04b/jul04-1.html which is similar to saying : `` i have no shaolin lineage . i did not learn from any well-known living shaolin masters . i mainly learned from shaolin classics , and was able to interpret and practice what past masters had written because of my thorough taijiquan training . '' there 's no way wong kiew kit would tolerate someone claiming to be a master of shaolin kung fu without having learned from a teacher belonging to a lineage . on his website he states that : `` not a single person of those who have learnt taijiquan from me complains about my lack of a taijiquan lineage . in fact , no one seems to care about this lineage issue . on the other hand , they are satisfied that what they have leant ( sic ) from me is very close to the kind of taijiquan practiced by masters in the past . '' http : //wongkk.com/answers/ans02b/dec02-3.html how are these people qualified to gauge how closely wong kiew kit 's taiji compares to taijiquan masters of the past ? did they time travel and study under these past masters ? or do they have a gut feeling like i have a gut feeling that i can learn shaolin kung fu from a taiji instructor ? it 's quite likely that wkk is teaching a modified version of shaolin kung fu that uses taiji principles gleaned from his interpretation of the classics . i wo n't deny that wong kiew kit is probably shaolin master , but there 's no evidence to suggest that he is teaching an authentic form of taiji . he has admitted that his entire knowledge of taijiquan has mainly come from books and scriptures , not from a living breathing human being trained in a proper lineage . call it whatever you want to wkk , but do n't mislead people into thinking its taijiquan . telling people to learn from masters and not from books and then doing it yourself is completley hypocritical . in the end , of what value is a `` tai chi chuan '' book that was written by someone who has no real `` tai chi chuan '' training ? in response to a new review , let me mention a few things : one reviewer presupposes that taiji branched off from shaolin , but there 's so much debate about the origins of taiji its to hard to make any concrete statements about it . the wikipedia page on zhang sanfeng states that : `` much of the written material about him is mythical , contradictory , or otherwise suspect . for instance , he is reported by different people to have been born either in 960 , 1247 , or in 1279 . '' there 's almost no proof to suggest that he actually existed , or that he created taiji out of shaolin . but what tends to be agreed upon is that all forms of taiji branched off from chen style when yang lu-chan learned the art and spread his version of taiji ( yang style ) across china . this reviewer and his master may have proper training in a taiji , and i wo n't contest that , but as wkk explicitly states , he has none . he seems to mistake wkk 's lack of proper instruction from a taiji master as modesty . if `` modesty '' is what you are looking for in a teacher , may i too be `` modest '' about my lack of proper instruction in shaolin , and offer you my instruction ; perhaps even a book about something that i have no proper instruction in . wkk does state that you should not learn taiji without a proper instructor , but he himself did just that . maybe he could provide us with the origins of his undistinguished lineage to settle the argument ? when the reviewer says that the shaolin temple is the `` supreme martial arts college throughout all of buddhist china 's history , '' it really is just a matter of opinion . not everyone views the shaolin temple in such a holy light . everything wkk writes in his books about the history of martial arts , the shaolin temple and buddhism ends up supporting his qualifications as a teacher ; which is a major conflict of interest . all the legends about bodhidharma and zhang sanfeng are stated as fact without being prefaced with a warning about the highly mythical nature of their history . he uses the iffy taiji developing from shaolin story to justify his lack of taiji lineage . if you were a prospective customer you would be highly discouraged by the whole no-lineage thing . but when he feeds you the taiji developing from shaolin stuff the reader thinks , `` if taiji developed from shaolin , wkk must be a master of both . '' wkk sounds pretty great if he is the one writing the history books