left me empty my kids started reading the left behind kids books , and because i was concerned about the message and theology of the books , i started reading them also . then i decided to check out the `` adult '' books from the library . i am a born-again , pentacostal believer in jesus christ , and parts of the theology are not what i read in the bible . ok . i can stil enjoy a good book , one with interesting characters , realistic dialogue , and a good plot . the issue of plot is difficult for the left behind books , i admit , because we know who wins if we 've read the end of the new testament . as to the rest , it fell flat . most of the dialogue did n't ring true . after a few of the books , i was interested in some of the characters , but by the end of the books , there were only a few of the original characters left , and they were some of the least interesting to begin with . how many times do we have to read through the same sermons from the exact same scriptures in revelation ? how many times do they have to tell us about the almost affair that someone had back in book 1 ? there is nothing new and interesting in this book . the last book is just boring . it would have been nice , at the end of the book , to wrap up everything . jesus comes back , and everyone should be reunited at the end after the battle is over , right ? some of the characters that were important early in the books are either barely mentioned or not mentioned at all . it was an incredible let down . i felt like i had invested in these books only to see what life would be like for everyone after the battles are over . nothing . we stick with that one main guy , and everyone else is left in the dust . it should have had a really , really happy ending , but even that was boring . if i had my time back , i would stick to the kid versions , if only to discuss theological issues with my children . at least in the kid books , the sermons are shorter . and i will know not to get my hopes up for happy reunions at the end of the series