smart dogs , dumb authors i could n't even begin to count all the things stanley coren gets wrong in the intelligence of dogs . for instance , in one section he claims that dogs have the ability to do math but in another part of the book he claims they ca n't tell the difference between a tug toy and human skin . the first is clearly way beyond a dog 's capacity , while the second is something which comes totally natural to them . how did coren get things so backwards ? and the `` intelligence '' tests he provides have nothing to do with intelligence but in how focused or driven a dog is to do the test ( or game ) while you 're doing it . for instance , i tried one of the tests with my dog by putting a piece of food under a towel , then waited to see how long it took him to find the treat . i 'd still be waiting if i had n't decided he 'd never look under that towel . then i tried the same game by teasing my dog with one of his favorite toys . then i hid it under the towel , and it took him less than a second to get that toy . so my dog is apparently both on the smarter and dumber ends of coren 's intelligence spectrum . ( this is just one example , by the way : the whole idea of testing a dog 's iq like this is bogus . ) and do n't get me started on coren 's pedantic retelling of the alpha myth . granted , he wrote this book before the latest research on wild wolf packs proved that there 's no such thing as a dominance hierarchy , or an alpha wolf , or the rest of that alpha nonsense . though , i doubt if even that data would change coren 's mind . after all , he seriously recommends rolling your dog over on its back every day and pulling one of the animal 's hind legs in the air to create a posture which supposedly `` signifies submission to the pack leader . '' ( really ? dogs use `` signifiers '' now ? ) the funny thing is , shortly after reading that passage i saw a wolf documentary on tv and the papa wolf did the exact opposite or what coren recommends ! he rolled over on his back and let the pups jump on top of him and bite his nose ! they loved it ! so i tried what the papa wolf did with his pups with my dog -- an alpha male , if there ever was one -- and he loved it . and later that night , on our last walk , he was ten times as obedient to me than he had been before i 'd mimicked the papa wolf 's behavior . again , coren had everything exactly backwards to reality . this `` through the looking glass '' quality persists throughout the book , with coren even saying that dogs are capable of hypothetical , symbolic , and conceptual thinking . wha.. ? i 'm sorry . i love dogs and i think they have wonderful abilities that should be honored and respected , but the abilities they do have are geared for being a dog , not a mini-me with four legs and a tail . for one thing , fully one third of a dog 's brain is devoted to processing olfactory information , and none to processing symbols and concepts . i think coren needs to do a little more research on comparative neuroanatomy and actual wolf behavior before he makes more ridiculous claims like the ones he made in this inane book .