most obstinate denial of the most obvious the author fancies himself a copernicus , by , similarly to the reversal of the notion that the sun revolves around the earth , rendering the notion of consciousness an `` illusion '' ( last word , p.178 ) . his ego is indeed enormous , my knowing of no other author quoting ( p.45 ) and incessantly citing his own writing . the notion of the sun revolving is an inference , from observing its change of position relative to the earth , and motion indeed is considered relative . but consciousness is not an inference . it is the most immediate phenomenon by which everything we know , or imagine , is manifested . dennett persistently investigates distinctions in our brains , from dispositions to memories , often couching them in esoteric or otherwise unfamiliar terms , while sidestepping the simple fact that whatever the detailed particulars , all is presented to us through the medium of consciousness . he puts great emphasis on the third-person approach , like questioning a subject about his perceptions , so as to discover misunderstandings about the inner workings of the mind , forgetting that all of these , whether actual perceptions or beliefs or else , are ingredients of consciousness . this his `` scientific method '' , compared to first-person introspection , is the only approved one . it is shared by others . like patricia churchland , he has contempt for `` folk '' psychology , pitting it against favored `` academic '' ( p.35 ) . they also share a derogatory attitude toward dissenters , regarding them as reactionaries ( p.8 ) or naysayers . the views are admittedly materialist , holding cartesian dualism of mind and body `` bankrupt '' or a `` disaster '' , as does john searle . why ? descartes is not in line with their assumed all-inclusive scientific method , embraced also by philosophers , who traditionally delved deeper into issues of knowledge . i do so newly in my book and here wish to note that however physical inquiry progresses , consciousness , via which the inquiry is made , remains a distinct phenomenon .