paranoid and unhelpful should you be afraid of your microwave oven ? this book discusses that non-issue for several paragraphs , before concluding that no , you probably should n't be afraid of your microwave . that embodies what 's wrong with this book . it pretends to be reassuring while actually planting a bunch of paranoid ideas . it also assumes that you , the reader , are the mother-to-be , while having very little to say to your partner , in a way that i find subtly sexist . overall , it has plenty to make you extra-worried . for instance , it advises posting pictures of healthy babies all around your house ( on the door , in the kitchen , on the bathroom mirror , really , all around your house ) , in order to continually remind yourself to eat a very rigid diet -- as if the bump in your belly was n't already making you worry quite enough . if you think that it would be helpful to post a nagging sign on your front-door to ask you daily , `` have you fed your baby breakfast today ? '' then you may like this book . personally , i found that _what to expext_ left me alarmed about microwaves & air pollution & ambient noise & even exercise in ways that were not helpful . for a book so full of information , it also , curiously , failed to address any of my specific questions . how soon should i begin taking folic acid or other prenatal vitamins : as soon as i start trying to get pregnant , or only after the pregnancy-test comes back positive ? is there anything i can do to increase my odds of getting pregnant ? what are those odds , anyway , for a woman my age ? these seemed like reasonable questions to me , but to find answers , i had to look in the far-more-helpful book by ann douglas , _the mother of all pregnancy books_ -- which also features a nifty week-by-week what's-happening-inside-your-body chart that i love . the other book i highly recommend is armin brott 's _the expectant father_ , which has terrific & reasonable advice you wo n't find elsewhere . by those two , not this one .