a superficially selective journalistic survey of the church written by the same author as cults , new religions movements , and your family , as well as defending the faith : a beginner 's guide to cults and new religions , gives a sense where the author is headed with this prodigious `` history '' of the church . although not an actual history of mormonism , but more of a superficially selective journalistic survey of the church , ( its people , dealings and influences ) the book offers the reader an enormous panoramic overview at the entire 170 year span of its existence . yes , the volume is anti-mormon , it is negative and has no balanced view or viewpoint . abanes uses enflamed and sensualistic language from the start and propagates the same misjudgments as previous anti-mormon writers ( confusing the action of members with the doctrines of the institution , using enflamed and unreliable anti-mormon sources as well as regurgitating old anti-mormon arguments that have been dealt-with in scholarly journals and balanced histories ) yes , he mostly uses only secondary materials and relies on the tanner 's as an authoritative source , and yes , the author has no clue what historical perspective is , but , one must give the author his due for the broad scope of the work . he not only covers all the standard anti-mormon fare ( the danites , blood atonement , polygamy , money digging , etc . ) ; but current subjects as well ( including the osmond 's , steve benson , the 2002 olympics , paul dunn , thomas ferguson , and racism ) . i enjoyed the author 's journalistic and creative approach to chapter and sub-chapter headings as well ( i.e. , `` bloody brigham , '' `` big trouble in little missouri , '' `` pride and prejudice '' and `` thinking is a sin '' ) . i like that abanes uses the internet and listed url 's for reference and resource , i liked his use of charts ( first vision , book of mormon , failed prophecies ) , and even though this book would not be published by an academic press or a large well-known publisher , it was published by a distinguished independent publisher that was since bought by the avalon publishing group . although the work can not be recommend as a studious publication or an important work on mormonism , the author does show that the church as an institution does have a long way to go in answering questions about its past , its `` official '' vs. its `` actual '' history , and currently about its political activities , treatment of its `` academic '' members ( versus the coddling it shows towards its more notable members ( including general authorities ) as well as its suppression of its own history that includes the closing-off of its records and library . the volume has 436 pages of text , five appendices ( one containing a helpful glossary of `` mormon terms '' ) , 152 pages of notes , a small bibliography and a 22 page index