from the same minds that brought you joel osteen i purchased eldredge 's `` wild at heart '' , and i did n't think it was scripturally sound . i was given `` waking the dead '' as a present , so i tried to read it as well . i finally gave it up . john eldredge 's writing is typical of today 's movement to bring the world into the church . trying to show a young christian the religious aspects of movies like `` the matrix '' may work , but to my 48 year old ears it rings very hollow . perhaps it boils down to how much you will dilute christ 's message to get people to listen . for better or worse , i have little patience for it . the author also presents the image of god as `` my friend '' . to me this is nothing but another watering down of the gospel message to get the world to accept it . giving the creator human attributes brings him down to a level where we can work things out between us . i ca n't find that kind of relationship in any legitimate bible translation . after all , my friend would n't let my saintly mother die , and save a worthless drug addict now would he ? god my friend probably would n't have sent his son to die for my worthless self anyway . this is exactly the same theology as building the largest `` christian '' church in the united states , and not putting any crosses in it so as not to `` offend anyone '' . it 's the same as getting on a nationally televised program , and stuttering about whether you believe those who do n't accept christ are doomed to hell . when you profess to be a christian minister or author and you ca n't speak correctly of what christianity teaches , it 's time to examine just what you really believe . god 's word is not always easy to swallow . either it 's the truth or it is n't . mr. eldredge also speaks often of `` setting hearts free '' . while i do believe hearts are free when released from sin , a christian is bought and paid for with christ 's blood and not `` free '' at all . titus 1 ( kj ) begins , `` paul , a servant of god , and an apostle of jesus christ '' ... christians are freed , but to begin a life of service . for a more accurate and fulfilling study , i recommend `` the way of the master '' books and videos by ray comfort/kirk cameron .