very little action , and other problems you have to read about 180 pages of this book before any action starts . i was frankly bored by the entire book . once the action starts , it 's fairly contrived . reacher is one of those very lucky or very unlucky `` heros . '' and if you 're one of those readers who like to try to figure out who is doing the dirty deeds , you ca n't . there are absolutely no clues you can use to determine the perpetrators . and who says the secret service does n't act proactively ? while this is one of the book 's major premises , the history of the service is filled with proactive activities to protect those who come under their care . i remember once when the president came to my hometown and spoke on the statehouse steps . office workers in nearby buildings used telescopes to get a better view . all of them were seen by secret service agents and men with guns visited them in one big hurry . radios were used in abundance . and this was over thirty years ago . do you think the service has become more capable or less capable since then ? if a single radio was used in this story , the perpetrators would have been caught about halfway through the book . when president bush ( the first one ) wanted to walk across the mackinac bridge for the annual walk , they took over the entire hotel where he would be staying , and not because they needed the space . a list of others who would be in attendance during the walk and at the dinner the previous evening had to be vetted starting 6 weeks prior to his visit , including local police . they even kept the pitcher of ice tea that he would be drinking from in a locked box watched over by an agent ( same with condiments ) . after spending a bazillion dollars up to and after the president 's meal , the prez graciously paid for his own meal , and left a nice tip . big of him . so agents do n't just show up a couple of hours or in one case in the book , a few minutes before the big event , and throw a cordon around him . i was also left with some unexplained questions at the end . so , it 's dull , inaccurate , and an insult to those brave souls who protect our nation 's leaders