his dark materials trilogy i have had these books on my shelf for a number of years , having never gotten around to them . they should have stayed on the shelf , as i now know . i read a lot of sci-fi and fantasy , so i recognized many of the tropes that pullman tries to pull off . i must say that holly lisle pulls off the multiverse much better than he does , and that 's not saying a whole lot . like most people here , i found myself drawn in by the first book . that one was well written , if a bit heavy handed in how good lyra was , how brave she was , how she could do anything even if it was previously impossible for anyone else to do - like break her father out of his svalbard prison . however , the books declined in quality from the first page of the second book . will takes it much too easily when he finds that he has committed his first murder , especially for a boy of 12 . as a reader , i am willing to suspend belief quite a bit , but this particular plot point snapped that thread for me . once that was lost , it was extremely difficult for me to engage myself with the text once again . as far as the ending goes , what a disappointment . it seems as if the third book was trying to tell three vastly different stories . frankly , if pullman had created a novel entirely about mary malone slipping into the world that she did and studying it in a scientific capacity with no way to return , that would have kept my interest much more than his rabid defamation of christianity . also , pullman fails to deliver on the cohesion of comparing mary to the serpent , lyra to eve , and will to adam . there was no offering there by mary of something to tempt lyra with as happened in the garden of eden . without this crucial component , there is no way that lyra can be eve reincarnate . the propaganda that pullman purports as truth would be all right if he was claiming it as his own , and that if others believed it , that would be okay . however , he very cleverly lulls the uncareful reader into believing that what he is saying is a universal truth . i had no idea that atheism was so nihilistic , yet that is the view i came away with when i finished this trilogy . i would never recommend these books to anyone . rather , i would steer them towards better fantasy novels - like rowling , tolkein , robin mckinley , patricia mckillip , and ursula k le guin