informative but poorly organized and biased albert hourani 's a history of the arab peoples is a widely regarded general history of the arab world . this is too bad , since as history the book is of low quality , with significant problems of organization and , where relevant to hourani 's apparent biases , factual accuracy . it does have its redeeming elements , but on the whole is for a variety of reasons not a reliable source as a general history of the arab world , especially for the beginner . being the author of a general history of the arab world myself , before i explain why i evaluate the book negatively i would like to suggest some alternatives , lest i be accused of attacking a rival publication out of self-interest . philip k. hitti 's the history of the arabs is a very detailed history which runs from pre-islamic times to the 19th century . arthur goldschmidt 's concise history of the middle east covers turkey , iran and israel as well as the arab world and is well-organized for beginners . it was the first general history of the middle east i read as an undergraduate . bernard lewis ' the middle east focuses more on concepts and the flow of history but is also appropriate for those without a strong background in the region . this book was first published in 1991 . this review is based on the 1992 paperback version by warner books . the initial weakness of this book begins with the very first chapter ; although containing 458 pages of main text , hourani 's history devotes a mere seven pages to the pre-islamic period . this is pretty amazing , for anyone familiar with that period , since arab history prior to islam is roughly as long as arab history after it . exactly how far back arab peoples go in history is a matter of dispute , but certainly there were people one could call `` arabians '' as far back as the beginning of the first mellinnium bc , or 1,600 years prior to muhammad . the evidence is sporadic for sure , and no writer would give it equal prominence with later times , but seven pages is pretty paltry . one might suspect an islamic bias here , but the problem continues in the key early periods of islam . the life of muhammad and his immediate successors who established the basis for the muslim world , spanning about a half century from muhammad 's first vision to the death of his son-in-law and successor ali , get only 11 pages . the first arab empire , the umayyads ( 661-950 ) , gets seven pages , and the abbasid empire ( 750-circa . 945 ) , which is usually thought of as the `` golden age of islam , '' gets only six . this means 37 pages for the first 2,000 years of arab history , including its framing epoch , and over 400 pages for the next 1,000 . this would leave the uninitiated reader entirely without much sense of proportion . what makes this book highly unrecommended for the beginner is its weak sense of organization . the middle time period between the collapse of abbasid authority - roughly ad 950 - and the ascendance of the ottoman empire over the arab world in 1517 is intrinsically a difficult time period to understand and a more difficult one on which to write a history . this is due to the fact that rather than there being one dominant power or a few powerful states , there is instead a multiplicity of dynasties with genuine authority in some areas not extending beyond the town level with a multifarious mixture of sunni and shia , arab , persian and turkic ruling groups , not to mention the latin states . hourani makes no serious attempt to help the reader keep all of it straight by moving from a chronological approach prior to 950 to a topical one . there are ten chapters covering this time period and the social history of part of the previous two periods ( the umayyads and the abbasids ) . there is one chapter which discusses the major power struggles of the time . if you want to understand the relative historical roles of the buyids , the fatimids , the zengids , the ayyubids , the mamluks and their contemporaries , read something else . it is within these ten chapters that this book contains its major strength - its `` social history , '' or its description of the development of the arab world . in fact i cited hourani on the social history sections of my own book . in this regard , hourani really is better than the alternatives . over 200 pages of the book is devoted to detailing various aspects of how the arab world came to be prior to the ottomans . so for those who have already read a general history of the middle east or the arab world and want a more specialized knowledge , these chapters are quite useful . i have several objections to how this book handles a variety of issues of current interest . this book was written during a time period when there was a great emphasis on negating certain negative images of arabs and muslims , to the point of deemphasizing any aspect of the arab world which might be interpreted negatively . the word `` jihad '' does n't even have an entry in the index , although it is used , or perhaps , misused . on page 247 , hourani describes a traditional view stipulating that the ruler has an obligation `` to pursue jihad by maintaining the strength of the kingdom 's defense ... '' this gives a misimpression , because legally jihad has two military meanings - the defense of muslim lands and the muslim community 's collective obligation to spread islam through conquest . although jihad has a spiritual as well as martial application , its use is overwhelmingly in the military context , and while muhammad 's battles probably could be described as defensive , the vast majority of military actions between that time and the 19th century involved offensive operations ( the christian counter-offensives known as the crusades being a major exception ) . more broadly , the single most influential islamist movement of the modern age , the wahhabis , get only a few scattered mentions , and there is no real indication of the wave of extremism which by 1991 had been felt for some time . the primary non-islamist ideological influence , marxism , is discussed of course , but the influence of nazism during the 1930s and 1940s is left out . nazi germany is mentioned once in passing , and in the same paragraph on page 331 palestinian leader amin husseini is mentioned , but it is n't mentioned that he was a strong supporter of nazis , that he moved to germany during the second world war and played an active role in the holocaust , or that despite this he was made leader of the palestinian cause by the nascent arab league after the war . hourani 's account of the 1967 is incredibly inaccurate , giving the impression that egypt engaged in some bluster and then israel started the war . he mentions nasser 's demand that the un clear out of the suez canal zone , and includes the defense pact with jordan , but omits a key fact - the mobilization of egyptian forces in the sinai . once egypt did this , israel had no choice but to attack , because of its small population its economy could not handle an extended mobilization , while egypt could . hourani also does n't mention the statements by arab leaders to the effect that all jews would be wiped out in the coming war . on the whole , this is a useful book if one already has a framework understanding of arab history and if one understands the slant that is being presented on issues of contemporary concern . otherwise , i do not recommend buying it