mcjihad vs . reality this book is inexplicably influential , probably due to its catchy but ultimately meaningless title . barber fails to convincingly analyze an interesting thesis , instead delivering an exasperating 300 page-long list of every single thing on earth that he disagrees with . barber contends that natural human political behavior results in smaller and smaller ethnic enclaves trying to separate themselves from the larger world , while unchecked global capitalism is erasing ethnic flavor with bowdlerized mass-culture sameness . interestingly , barber contends that these two contrary movements are actually in an unholy alliance , using each other 's excesses as excuses for their anti-democratic behavior . that is a fascinating thesis , which makes the weaknesses of this book all the more infuriating . the first part of the book is an interminable tirade of lists within lists , of cultural trends that barber disdains , in an avalanche of complaints that is not analytical but merely selective and arbitrary . it 's all tied together with attempts at `` edgy '' pop culture references , made-up terminology ( like the annoying `` infotainment telesector '' ) , and pseudo-intellectual quotations and namedropping . all is lumped together unconvincingly under the anemic term `` mcworld , '' which is so vague and all-inclusive as to become meaningless . in his never-ending examples of how recent cultural trends are damaging the freedom and intelligence of the masses , barber merely comes across as a condescending snob who thinks his own interests are superior , or a curmudgeon who thinks everything was better back in the good old days , or both . in the second part of the book , barber proceeds to throw obtuse political science theories at various world hotspots , in which tribalism and separatism are damaging the integrity of nation-states . his umbrella term for this phenomenon is the dangerously loaded term `` jihad . '' note that this book was published back in 1995 , so that word was not as prevalent in western discourse as it is now , but barber still uses the term as a loose descriptor which is likely to offend both devout muslims and ardent anti-islamists . when it comes to the specifics , many reviews here and elsewhere list out the numerous flaws in barber 's arguments , and there are so many of them that a lot of reviews are necessary for the task . you can agree or disagree with various critiques of barber 's contentions based on your own personal politics . but everyone will probably conclude that in this book 's final section he does not deliver on the ironic implications of his initially intriguing thesis ( embodied in the book 's title ) , and simply forwards borrowed theories on civil society and the public sector . overall , this book is mostly the longwinded grumblings of a nostalgic know-it-all who portentously predicts doom for every single cultural and political reality of the modern world . [ ~doomsdayer520~