author devoid of the holy spirit , and ignorant of holy scriptures author displays his ignorance of the holy scriptures through out his book . let me just highlight three areas . ( 1 ) he quotes 1 timothy 2:9-15 and then makes the following blasphemous statement , `` furthermore , they ( woman ) are held responsible for the origin of sin in the world : it was the woman who was deceived , not the man. `` how spiritually blind one can get ? let me elaborate . apostle paul in his letter to the church at rome writes : romans 5:12 `` just as sin entered into the world by one man , and death by means of sin , so death was imposed upon all men , in asmuch as they all have sinned . '' holy spirit is holding adam responsible for the entry of sin into the world . yes eve was deceived first by that serpent of old , called the devil . adam was not deceived , but disobeyed deliberately . adam was the door through whom sin entered the world . sin was the door through which death entered the world . i strongly feel that the words spoken by my savior , lord eshoo messiah ( aramaic for jesus christ ) to nichodemus in john 3:10 are applicable to marcus borg also . john 3:10 eshoo answered , you are a teacher of israel , and yet you do not undertsnad these things. ? ( 2 ) author writes : `` i see the bible as human response to god . rather than seeing god as scriptures 's ultimate author ... . the bible thus tells us about how they saw things , not about how god sees things . '' this is blasphemy . holy scriptures consisting of ( law of moshey , prophets , psalms , four gospels , book of the acts of the apostles , 14 epistles of apostle paul , one epistle of james , two epistles of peters , three epistles of john , one epistle of jude , and the lord eshoo messiah 's revelation to john ) are living word of god spoken by his prophets and apostles through the holy spirit sent from heaven . if god had not revealed himself , we will still be speculating because we are fallen and fallible creatures . i thank the lord that he took initiative and revealed himself . apostle peter writes : `` we have also a true word of prophesy ; you do well when you look to it for guidance , as you look to the lamp that shines in a dark place until the dawn of day , when the sun will shine in your hearts . '' god with wisdom created the heaven and earth in the very beginning . book of proverbs was written so that we may know wisdom and instruction ; to perceive the words of understanding ; to receive discipline , reverence , righteousness , and justice , and equity.it says the following about god 's word : proverbs 8:8-9 `` all the words of my mouth are in righteousness ; there is nothing perverse or deceptive in them . they are all plain to him who understands them , and right to those who are willing to find knowledge . '' author ignored the words of the holy spirit spoken through king solomon , son of david , wherein he writes : `` if you will turn to my reproof , behold , i will pour out my spirit upon you ; i will make known my words to you ( proverbs 1:23 . ) '' in my view , author of the book while thinking within himself that he is wise , he became fool ( romans 1:22. ) . ( 3 ) let me illustrate author 's foolishness with another blasphemy . he writes : `` but a moment 's reflection suggests that the ten commandments are also a human product and written from a male point of view. '' . i wonder if he has ever studied the book of pslams . let me just quote psalm 19 where law is called law of the lord . psalm 19:7-11 `` the law of the lord is perfect , converting the soul ; the testimony of the lord is trustworthy , making wise the young men . the statues of the lord are right , rejoicing the heart ; the commandment of the lord is pure , enlightening the eyes . the reverence of the lord is clean , enduring forever ; the judgment of the lord are true and righteous altogether . they are more to be coveted than gold ; yea , than precious stones ; sweeter also than honey and the honeycomb . moreover by them thy servant is warned ; and if he keep them he shall be greatly rewarded . '' book of revelation says that : `` this is the perseverence of saints that they keep the commandment of god and their testimony of eshoo messiah , who is king of kings , lord of lords . '' apostle peter 2000 years ago had warned us of such self appointed professors when he writes : 2 peter 3:16 `` ... .. in paul 's epistles there are certain things so hard to be understood that those who are ignorant and unstable pervert their meanings , as they do also the other scriptures , to their own destruction '' . holy spirit calls such authors as `` springs without water , cloud that are carried away with a tempest ; the mist of darkness is reserved for them forever ... .. '' . `` verily it would have been better for them not to have known the way of righteousness than , after they have known it , to turn from the holy commandment that was delivered to them . '' author 's contempt for the holy scriptures can be traced to his upbringing in the lutheran church . he says : `` i was nurtured in the the lutheran church and remained lutheran until about age 30 . '' luther is not much of a roll model for anything . it is luther who showed contempt for the holy scriptures when he called book of james , `` an epistle of straw '' . luther called book of revelation , `` worthless '' . talk about having an arrogant and audacious attitude . lord eshoo messiah said `` unless we become like little children we can not enter the kingdom of god '' . by that , my savior did not mean at all that we should be childish . what he talks about is having child like trust . book of psalms tells that `` he teaches humble his way '' . and `` fear of god is the beginning of wisdom but fool despise wisdom and instruction . '' to such self appointed reformers and professors , holy spirit had issued following warning in the epistle of james : james 3:1 `` let not many of you become teachers , my brethren , knowing that as such we will incur a stricter judgment . '' luther should have kept himself busy studying god 's word instead of writing the anti-jewish tripe , `` jews and their lies '' . this book came in very handy for hitler who sent 6 millions of the seed of abraham ( jews ) to their death in holocaust - pan european event . 6th commandment , which is law of god says : `` thou shall not kill or murder '' holy scriptures says that like cloud and wind without rain is man who boast of his gift falsely . neither luther nor the author possess the gift of teaching . i am convinced that there was no reformation . things have not changed at all . in rome we have one pope on seven hills . protestant movement has produced seven popes on every dunghill ( western and eastern churches ) . lord eshoo during his earthly ministry did not speak of reformations or revivals , but instead said : `` because of the growh of iniquity ( lawlessness ) love of many will grow cold . will son of man find faith when he returns ? '' i want to cry out : help lord , godly men ceases to be , and faith has disappeared from the earth '' let me end my review with the following words of encouragement as well as warning given by the holy spirit : proverbs 30 : 5-6 `` every word of god is pure ; he is a shiled to those who put their trust in him . do not add to his words ; lest he reprove you , and you be found a liar . '' he who has ears , let him hear what the spirit says to the churches . sincerely and cordially dr. ram munjal ph.d. ( physics ) ; s.s