having your cake and eating it , too ! now that we have had the benefit of over two centuries of historical-critical biblical studies , we might now very well ask : where do we go from here ? i would offer that the fundamental working hypothesis of such studies is that `` they made it all up '' and so the scholarly task becomes one of reconstructing that process , but the unquestionable assumption behind it all is that anything , positively anything , is more credible than traditional christian faith ( this is amounts to , for the critical scholars , a doctrine of `` justification by doubt '' ) . and so the game proceeds . canonical scripture is called upon , and even appealed to , when it can be interpreted to support the working assumption that nothing at all is what it might seem when it comes to christian origins . but whenever scripture supports a traditional understanding , then it is systematically demolished , discredited , decoded , and rejected as the purely ideological product it most assuredly is . and all of the other texts , the schismatic , heterodox materials and the gnostic drivel -- which the church had its apostolic reasons to reject -- must simply be seen for what they are , and not evidence of christianity 's original `` denominational '' condition . bart ehrman is a most clever and educated man , but , contrary to what some might assume , he does approach the material at hand with a clear bias and set of preconceived understandings . so let 's forget all the by now stale appeals to scholarly objectivity ( not to mention , personal integrity ) and letting `` the sources speak for themselves '' , because that is just so much fantasizing as well . traditional christian faith is dismissed by ehrman and his ilk as being simply one more product of identifiable historical forces and thus it has no intrinsic claim to truth . but try reading the bible with the assumption that it is all true , that what it tells us about who jesus of nazareth is , and the beginnings of his church are a reliable enough account of what did happen . i realize that such an enterprise is inconceivable to the scholarly guild ( with the refreshing exception of people like luke timothy johnson and n.t . wright ) , but philology is not faith , and in the end , it should never even be considered as a basis for it . ehrman 's reconstructions are thus of interest only to a person who would treat any kind of 'faith ' resulting from it as a kind of personal plaything , and not as the daily challenge to his own being . remember , christian faith is ultimately about god and our relationship with him , and not about the way in which we might choose to arrange the intellectual games we play with faith and our musings upon it . if you are interested in keeping god at arm 's length and not dealing with real issues of personal growth and spiritual integrity ( the kind that comes not from footnotes but from abiding in the holy spirit ) , then buy this book , read it , and enjoy whatever feelings of superiority it might give you . but if not , if you are seeking the one , true living god who awaits those who would believe in him through his son jesus , who is the christ , then forget about it and all the other 'ragings of the pagans ' . you see , they are the ones you will be able to spot on the closeout shelf .