another soap opera there is no doubt that antonia fraser 's `` the journey '' is written in the author 's usual wry , witty and highly engaging style ( although i must say that i never before heard of sex described as `` lugubrious . '' ) there is also no doubt that fraser has done a great deal to redeem marie-antoinette 's shredded reputation by accurately describing her as being compassionate to the hardships of the french people . the book is full of vivid detail which makes it very readable . however , i was disappointed to see that fraser resorts to many popular misconceptions . for one thing , why does fraser act like marie antoinette was the only princess to be sent away from home as a teenager to seal a dynastic marriage ? what about sophie of anhalt-zerbst ( catherine the great ) who was also a young stranger in a foreign land ? this sort of thing happened all the time - it was what being a princess was all about . i was glad that fraser did not fall into the myth of louis xvi 's impotence/ phimosis and surgery and all that . she simplistically portrays him as being asexual , which was not true , because he told his aunt after consummating his marriage that he enjoyed `` it . '' but never has any other biographer subjected the reader to the spectacle of fersen and the queen fiddling with primitive prophylactics while consummating their grand passion . i must say , it is a first . fraser insists that marie antoinette slept with fersen for many years and yet gives no solid proof , while at the same time maintaining that she was a woman of high moral character . i usually do not think of a woman who is shared by both a lover and a husband as having a high moral character , but i guess fraser does . oh , well . it is such romantic fantasies that turn this book into more of a soap opera than a serious biography . i found it absurd when fraser insists that the tormented queen of france was ultimately a martyr for the cause of the socialism and democracy which the french people now enjoy . if the queen had had her way , her descendant would be reigning today , and that is just the reality of it . for a better study of marie antoinette 's relationship with her husband , i would recommend vincent cronin 's `` louis and antoinette . '' as for better biographies of the queen , let me join some fellow reviewers in the hope that the works of delorme and bertieres will soon be available in english