sad ... even if one is sympathetic to groothuis 's broad concern , one ca n't help but be disappointed with this text . this book is a bad regurgitation of other bad and reductive non-readings of `pomo ' . groothuis depends way too highly on secondary ( and sometimes tertiary ) sources . it escapes me how a former reviewer could call this work `scholarly . ' i suppose if one considers logic 101 tinged with the usual fundamentalist `defender of the faith ' rhetoric and aura ( which hovers over every page ) , then this could be called `scholarly . ' the big problem i found is that even when groothuis offers defensible criticisms , his alternatives end up being just as problematic as the positions he criticizes . for all his advocacy for a correspondence theory of truth , his tone betrays a penchant for certainty and formal coherence . he falls into the problem of the relation between thought and `reality , ' representation to presentation , the role of language , and so forth . no doubt god comes to save the day with all these problems , yet on the very justificatory terms groothuis advocates for , god escapes the measure of correspondence and becomes its condition of possibility . in other words , god becomes a structural metaphysical function which `saves ' groothuis 's truth from the skeptic . the problem , however , is that groothuis wants truth to be absolute , universal , and accessible to all , yet he is dependent on a moment ( i.e . faith ) which , by definition , retains a trace of contingency or `objective ' undecidability . groothuis 's more ethical concerns are where i am more sympathetic , but again , here his polemics and non-reading of the people he criticizes drowned out whatever constructive points he offers . groothuis practices the same type of irresponsible reflection that some of the `pomo ' evangelical 's do : uncriticality . here , philosophy and reflection - whether modern or postmodern - becomes a means to simply confirm and justify a complacent status quo , rather than challenging and transforming the status quo . the challenge presented in this book is for a nostalgic return to the good old days of christendom . jesus did not come to `save ' our metaphysical systems , but to redeem us and this world . that redemption is not contingent upon accurate representations as groothuis seems to think . it is madness to the greek ( i.e . the logician ) and a stumbling block to the legalist ( i.e . moralistic hypocrites ) . the task is not to make the faith less crazy or more socially repressive . as james tells us , the measure of `true ' faith - and here i will grant a type of reference - is that we `attend to the widow and orphan . ' kerygma without service is dead , a worse lie than any humanism . perhaps if we began `proving ' our faith , that is , manifesting its truth in radical service and justice - we could actually demonstrate the truth to which we testify . i guess it is much easier to `defend the faith ' with bad arguments which only convince the already convinced , than to `live the faith ' : serve the people no one gives a hoot about . after all , in the latter case one can not fancy oneself a hero in quite the same way .