unbiblical and bad writing make for one star this book is so flawed in every which way , it is hard to know where to begin . first of all , we are living in the end times , and when jesus comes , that 's all she wrote , folks . there 's no seven years , no christians being zapped up , etc . this is our second chance on earth . no tribulation . this book takes figurative visions and tries to apply it literally , and does it poorly . reading this book made me think that if this was true , then what 's the point of trying to be a christian . why not just live your life the way you want to , and then when people zap out of thin air , change your life . it 's ridiculous and sends the wrong message . plus , the writing is for second graders with no redeeming characteristics to it . but i really do n't think the author 's care at this point ( seeing how many millions they 've made printing lies ) . my recommendation is to read the bible instead of this series ; then you 'll get truth and the bible is probably shorter ( and much better writing ) . man , not even kirk cameron could save this train wreck . re : j czecholinski hey j , you could n't be more wrong ! your review is as flawed as lahaye and jenkin 's unbiblical writing . first , i am a christian who does believe that jesus is coming back , but i do not believe he is coming back in a secret , silent rapture that the left behind series is making millions of christians believe . i believe in the verse you used ( to try and prove me wrong ) , which is 1 thessalonians 4:16-17 : 'for the lord himself will come down from heaven with a commanding shout , with the call of the archangel , and with the trumpet call of god . first , all the christians who have died will rise from the graves.then , together with them , we who are still alive and remain on the earth will be caught up in the clouds to meet the lord in the air and remain with him forever . ' when jesus comes back , we will know it . keys words being commanding shout and trumpet call of god . we 're not going to be zapped up while others are standing around for 7 years . in the bible , 7 years refers to completeness or totality , which is time until jesus comes back for good . lahaye and jenkins are taking figurative language from john 's revelation and making them literal and adding their own spin to sell books and make movies . this adding to scripture and polluting the word of god makes me think of galatians 1:6-9 which says : `` i am astonished that you are so quickly deserting the one who called you by the grace of christ and are turning to a different gospel -- which is really no gospel at all . evidently some people are throwing you into confusion and are trying to pervert the gospel of christ . but even if we or an angel from heaven should preach a gospel other than the one we preached to you , let him be eternally condemned ! as we have already said , so now i say again : if anybody is preaching to you a gospel other than what you accepted , let him be eternally condemned ! '' this is what lahaye and jenkins are doing : perverting the gospel with their own spin . and your `` belief '' in the anti-christ is incorrect as well ( along with lahaye and jenkins ) . check out these verses : 1st john 2:22 `` who is the liar ? it is the man who denies that jesus is the christ . such a man is the antichrist -- he denies the father and the son . '' or 1st john 4:3 `` ... but every spirit that does not acknowledge jesus is not from god . this is the spirit of the antichrist , which you have heard is coming and even now is already in the world . '' key words their being even now is already in the world . this is referring to satan who was in the world in john 's day and still in the world . the bible says in 1st john 2:18 that many anti-christs have come and anti-christ is anyone who is against christ . there are many people who are persecuting the church and christians ( as this is the last days that we are living - check out 2nd timothy 3 ) . why are we looking for somebody like nicholae when there are already those who have the spirit of the anti-christ ? why are polluting the word of god to try and sell books and movies . why are we allowing ourselves to be eternally condemned because we are starting to follow this new type of thinking ? do you think that the disciples , when jesus ascended to heaven , thought that there would be a silent rapture followed by tribulation ? no ! finally , you said that 2nd corinthians 6:2 says : `` today is the day of salvation i 'm looking so forward to that day when the lord will come for me and all born again believers that we wo n't have to endure the tortures during the tribulation . '' what bible version are you looking at . 2nd corinthians 6:2 clearly states : `` for he says , 'in the time of my favor i heard you , and in the day of salvation i helped you . ' i tell you , now is the time of god 's favor , now is the day of salvation . '' nothing about tribulation and nothing about enduring tortures ! ! ! you are just making up scripture , perverting the gospel ! now verse 4 talks about troubles ( lower-case `` t '' ) , hardships , distresses , etc . that is happening now , today until jesus comes back with a commanding shout and trumpet call of god to take us to heaven and those against him into eternal judgement - no 7 year tribulation period ! ! ! live today like it was your last day , because you could die or jesus could come back ( and believe me , you will know it because until you can show me verses where a silent , secret rapture will take place and there will be those left behind battling for seven years , i will continue to follow the god-breathed word of god and not fluff of lahaye and jenkins . `` tribulation '' is found once in the bible ( rev 7:14 niv ) and it is with a lower-case `` t '' and has nothing to do about what the books suggest . `` rapture '' never appears as this is a word that has n't been around that long . so in summary , jesus is coming back and we will know about it ( whether you are a christian or not ) . and off the subject , yes , baptism is essential to becoming a christian and being saved ( not praying jesus into your heart ) ... it seems that the same people who believe in lahaye 's rapture are usually wrong on that issue as well . please do yourself a favor . read the bible and follow it . if you do that , then you wo n't be led astray by these false teachings of someone like j. czecholinski who can not even get his scriptures straight . re : j. czecholinski wow , j czecholinski 's perverting of the scripture is uncanny . somehow , he has gotten this vision and received a new gospel along with lahaye and jenkins . most of his words are empty , his verses taken out of context , the use of visions in revelation taken literal , and his best response is this : `` this thought process has dominated rapture writings for the past 25 years . '' wow , 25 years ! forgot about centuries of beliefs that the disciples have passed down and jesus 's own words and the scriptures ( again i point to the verses you brought up 1st thessalonians 4:16-17 - loud command and trumpet call of god ! ! ! ) . and then he tries to debate the baptism issue which jesus and the disciples have passed down , but in the last 100 years new thinkers have changed that to just `` pray jesus into your heart '' , although there are many verses about baptism being essential and zero about praying jesus into your heart ( big one being said by peter , a disciple of jesus in acts 2:38 `` peter replied , `` repent and be baptized , every one of you , in the name of jesus christ for the forgiveness of your sins . and you will receive the gift of the holy spirit . '' then there is : matt 3:11 , john 3 ( water and spirit ! ) , acts 2:41 , acts 8:12-16 , acts 8:36-38 , acts 9:18 , acts 19:3-5 , acts 22:16 , romans 6 , 1 corinthians 12:13 , 1 corinthians 15:29 , galatians 3:27 , ephesians 4:5 , colossians 2:12 , and the list goes on and on although the bible never says to pray him into your heart ! i think the disciple peter said it best in 1st peter 3:18-22 `` for christ died for sins once for all , the righteous for the unrighteous , to bring you to god . he was put to death in the body but made alive by the spirit , through whom also he went and preached to the spirits in prison who disobeyed long ago when god waited patiently in the days of noah while the ark was being built . in it only a few people , eight in all , were saved through water , and this water symbolizes baptism that now saves you also -- not the removal of dirt from the body but the pledge of a good conscience toward god . it saves you by the resurrection of jesus christ , who has gone into heaven and is at god 's right hand -- with angels , authorities and powers in submission to him . '' do n't try to say that baptism is a good work and compare it to ephesians 2:8 and take it out of context . salvation requires : believe , confess , repent , baptism , and living by your faith . that is the belief that jesus and the apostles have passed down for 2000 years . so j , you can go ahead and listen to thought of the last 25 to 100 years by man , but as for me , i will listen to the scriptures and to jesus and to paul and the apostles . for paul says in galatians 1:12 `` i did not receive it from any man , nor was i taught it ; rather , i received it by revelation from jesus christ . '' so there you go .