unkindness as philosophy the fountainhead has been described by one of its many followers - yes , followers , not readers , for the book is essentially unreadable -- as a `` passionate defense of individualism [ that ] presents an exalted view of man 's creative potential . '' this is a fair description , although it points unintentionally to the book 's main flaw : it is not a novel , but a tract posing as a novel . traditional progressive novels tend to be suspicious of the exalted , especially of those who occupy exalted positions based on birth or social class . in the case of ms. rand , the exalted are those rare individuals who , like herself , must be allowed to work their will upon the world because they believe themselves exalted . a circular argument at best , a bad faith argument in truth , this tacit nod to the slow ascent of the common man and woman since the enlightenment spares ms. rand from plumping for monarchy which , even by today 's repellent neo-conservatives standards , is universally seen to be repellent . because her main character , howard roark , architect extraordinaire , is an argument and not recognizably a person , he not surprisingly suffers from a lack of inner-animation . sensitive readers will chafe against the underlying and predictable framework that ultimately treats characters as props for ms. rand 's objectivist philosophy , an anti-progressive stew of prejudices posing as a critique of the welfare state and its `` leveling effects . '' here 's the problem with her `` philosophy : '' for every howard roark it raises up as hero , it writes off millions of people as unworthy of our interest , our sympathy and our compassion . unkindness is not a philosophy most find acceptable . with the fountainhead , rand attempted to make it so and has managed to fool many . because she has , she is therefore lauded by her conservative followers because her apologia absolves them of any responsibility for the fate of their fellow men and women . regrettably , this book and her other tendentious work , atlas shrugged , have found their way into the backpacks of idealistic college students . one suspects that many , because their relative youth causes them to see themselves as unique individuals , are seduced by the notion that they , too , are slated for heroic status . i have nothing against people having heroes ; young people especially should have them . but howard roark is no hero . he 's a stick figure that represents a hero . i suspect too , that because of their general unreadability , students think the books are `` deep . '' in retrospect , it seems true that those people whom i knew in college who did n't finish this tract-posing-as-a-novel were people who tended to be relatively reasonable in their social and political views . those who did finish it , on the other hand , tended to be immoderate and dogmatic . judging by some of the reviews posted here , this probably remains true today .