a delight the names ty cobb , babe ruth and honus wagner do n't resonate as much as they used to . as the decades go by even the old-timers among us have n't been around long enough to remember them . they 've pretty much become historical , iconic figures , like the stoic-looking george washington on a dollar bill . it 's a bit of a sad reminder of the inexorable march of time , but what a great relief to know that this treasure chest of a book is around to keep their memories alive . the author got the idea for it in 1961 when he read that ty cobb had died . realizing that many of cobb 's contemporaries would soon suffer the same fate , he set out to meet as many of them as he could and record -- literally with a tape recorder -- their stories for posterity . twenty six of them are recounted here . some of these guys are hall-of-famers , some of them not even close , but all of them -- every single one -- had a load of interesting tidbits to share . baseball was a different game back then . america was a different place . the first great thing about the book is that you get at least several takes on the great ballplayers . one of the fellows , for example , playing detroit , talked about being a little nervous about cobb , whom they had all heard would sharpen his spikes . a detroit player , however , mentioned that cobb never sharpened his spikes . not that they did n't discourage the other team from thinking so . walter johnson had an arm like a bullwhip , but he was a nice enough guy and a friend of sam crawford . late in the game , if his team was ahead by enough runs , he 'd toss a meatball in to crawford and let him belt it . he never did that for cobb , though , who he hated . cobb could never figure out why crawford was able to hit him . honus wagner is recalled by many as the best of all of them , with great quickness , great hitting and great fielding . a couple of the fellows recall that you could usually count on bits of gravel to be flung at you along with the ball he had just scooped up . tommy leach described him as the best fielding third-baseman , shortstop , first-baseman and outfielder in the league -- he played all of them -- and since he won the batting title eight times between 1900 and 1911 you could n't really argue that he was n't the best hitter in the league , either . for some odd reason , there are n't that many memorable gems about the great babe ruth , although there are at least a few . harry hooper ( a guy i 'd never heard of and a hall-of-famer ) remembers ruth in the first year he came up with boston as a , `` big , overgrown , green pea . '' `` nineteen years old , poorly educated , only lightly brushed by the social veneer we call civilization , he was gradually transformed into the idol of american youth and the symbol of baseball the world over . . . if somebody had predicted that back on the boston red sox in 1914 , he would have been thrown into the lunatic asylum . '' along with these detailed sketches , including a ton of characters i have n't even mentioned -- germany schaeffer , rube waddell ( who did n't like to wear underwear ) , lefty o'doul , dazzy vance -- the book is also , naturally , loaded with baseball anecdotes . some of the more famous plays of the time , for example , are recounted in different ways and with different perceptions . take the `` bonehead '' merkle play . for those of you who do n't know , what happened was this . the giants were tied with the cubs for first place with one week to go in the season . in a game against each other , in the bottom of the ninth of a 1-1 game , the giants had men on first and third with two outs . merkle was on first . birdwell hit a single to center , mccormack scored from third , and merkle . . . ran to the clubhouse . without touching second . the cubs retrieved the ball from center field , evers tagged second , and the run did n't count . because of the crowd on the field the game had to be replayed on a later date . the giants lost it , and lost the pennant . from then on and forever more , fred merkle became `` bonehead '' merkle . but it 's actually a little more complicated than that . for one thing , merkle was only nineteen . it was the first game he 'd ever started for the giants . and running into the clubhouse when the game was over was something all the guys did -- whether touching second was necessary or not -- because of the crowd pouring onto the field after the ushers opened the gates at the end of the game . the players ran off to get away from them . and evers never did tag second base with the ball that was hit out to center because someone had heaved it into the left field stands . fred snodgrass does n't think he ever tagged second with any ball at all . the umpires were n't around to know this , though ; they had already left the field ! funny how the mists of history tend to simplify things . the detail in this book brings these stories back to life . and there are a ton of them recounted . along with all of this baseball lore , you get a pretty good glimpse of america a hundred years ago , too . people were more humble , but in general confident , and much more direct . it 's fascinating just to consider their nicknames : `` wee willie '' was the nickname for a short guy , `` specs '' was the guy who wore glasses , `` chief , '' ( at least two of them ) were american indians , and , `` dummy '' was the guy who was deaf and dumb . nobody meant anything by it ; nobody apparently took offense . stuff like these speaks volumes . here 's jimmy austin : `` . . . they did n't have clubhouses in most parks , especially not for the visiting team . we 'd get into uniform at the hotel and ride out to the ball park in a bus drawn by four horses . they used to call it a tally-ho in those days . we 'd sit on seats along the sides and ride , in uniform , to the ballpark and back . `` that ride was always a lot of fun . kids running alongside as we went past , and rotten tomatoes once in a while . always lots of excitement when the ball club rode by , you know . '' yep . thanks in part to this book , we know all right .