best choice i 'd rather give this 4.5 stars , but i ca n't . as another reviewer said , one wants to not like this volume . it 's expensive and there are some annoying things about it -- for example , the paper is soooo thin you can practically read the recto on the verso -- but it is all-around the edition i turn to most often . the riverside ( i 'd judge it to be the other most commonly used anthology ) is absolutely ungainly . its paper is certainly better , but the thing is absolutely huge . looks great on the shelf , but horrible to carry with you to class . i also dislike the riverside 's two column layout and system of notation , which puts notes and glosses at the bottom of the page without indicators in the text . the norton puts glosses in the margin , which i find infinitely less disturbing and more likely to be helpful , and it numbers footnotes . it also uses a single-column layout , which i find much easier to read and allows a smaller paper size ( same size as all the other nortons out there , same bible paper too ) without a smaller font size . the introductions to the individual plays have been farmed out to some of the best in the biz , so it 's not just greenblatt 's book . for what it 's worth , his job on the introductory material in this volume matches the quality of what you expect from one of the leading figures in the field . what 's more , the scholarly material is very readable and generally helpful . yes , the take of that material is definitely influenced by new historicism and cultural materialism , but anything compiled in the last 20 years is likely to be similarly influenced . there is also some good theater history help here and some good old facts . if you have problems with the oxford edition , then you 'll have problems with this one . if you do n't , then it should be fine . for what it 's worth , i reallllly like that there are the three lear texts . this is a volume than can just be read if you want to read shakespeare . but it 's also a book that will get you through the hard stuff and that is fit for scholarly work .