there is yet more to learn about those old stories ! if you have a king james version of the bible , the next time you read genesis , pay attention to how god is referred to . sometimes he 's called `` god '' and sometimes he 's called `` the lord '' . the reason for this is that the original hebrew text uses two different names for god , and the translators were careful to preserve this . when the hebrew text uses `` elohim '' it is translated as `` god '' . when the hebrew text uses `` yahweh '' , it is translated as `` the lord '' . if you carefully read genesis , you 'll notice that when genesis refers to god as `` yahweh '' , he seems to be very different than when he is refered to as `` elohim '' . for example , elohim is invisible -- he never appears to anybody nor can he be seen by anybody -- but yahweh talks face-to-face with people all the time : with abram , to jacob , and to moses and the 40 elders . elohim seems remote and regimented , whereas yahweh comes across as mischevious and irrascible . this has prompted some to propose the so-called `` documentary hypothesis '' which posits that genesis was formed by editing together two or more different books , each book using a different word for god and each book presenting a different picture of who god was and what he was all about . the book of j is the hypothasized book which used 'yahweh '' as the name of god . scholars try to reconstruct this book by bringing together all of the passages in the first 5 books of the bible which refer to god as `` yahweh '' . the result is startling : the same stories you 've heard all your life ( the tower of babal , joseph going to egypt , abram bargaining with god over sodom and gomorrah ) , when read together like this , take on a whole different level of meaning . this book provides two things in one handy volume : it provides a reconstruction of the book of j , freshly translated by david rosenberg , and it also provides an extended commentary by harold bloom , who is certainly the best reader alive today , and who is uniquely qualified to serve as a tour guide through the experience of reading j . so to review the book i 'd like to review each of these seperately . first , rosenberg 's translation . to illustrate just how good it is at bringing things out of the text which you ordinarly would n't notice , i 'd like to quote from his translation of the story of the tower of babal : `` we can bring ourselves together '' they said `` like stone on stone , use brick for stone : bake it until hard . '' for morter they heated bitumen . notice how this translation brings out the parallelism between the tower of babal and human society : the tower is made out mud bricks bound by bitumen , and society is made out of people bound by language . but people are also just made out of mud -- recall the creation story where yahweh breathes the breath of life into mud . baking the mud into bricks is symbolic of the people making themselves hard , and using bitumen for morter is symbolic of them using language and government to organize themselves . rosenberg 's translation makes available to us many of the puns and wordplay which other english translations unfortunately lose . now , to review bloom 's commentary . scholarly types are fond of dising bloom for his tendency to be speculative , to use his imagination to illuminate the reading of the text . but what they are forgetting is that j is a bunch of stories , written for us to experience ! to use an parable of rorty 's , its like a surgion describing your wife as a bunch of tissues and organs vs. describing your wife as warm and loving , important person in your life . yes , `` warm and loving '' ar n't medical terms , but that does n't make them a bad description of your wife . also , the very greatest literature , such as j is , will admit of more than one reading , more than one interpretation , more than one point of view . bloom here does us excellent service by showing us his point of view on the text , telling us how the experience of reading the text impacts him . the author of j did n't write j just to chronicle some historical figures -- the author of j wrote j so that we could read it , and by reading it , become changed into new people . _this_ is the aspect of experiiencing j which bloom 's commentary helps along , and this is the aspect which critics of bloom 's commentary are missing the most