you have a brand whether you think you do or not ... it 's relatively easy to get someone to make a single purchase from you . but how do you instill that long-term loyalty and love that causes people to refuse to buy from anyone else ? ben mack talks about that and many other branding issues in the book think two products ahead : secrets the big advertising agencies do n't want you to know and how to use them for bigger profits . it 's an unconventional book that does n't mince words ... contents : pool hall wisdom ; brand misinformation versus back-end thinking ; the common thread and thinking two products ahead ; branding ? be good to your gander ; branding processes are strikingly similar ; what 's a brand essence ? ; legendary branding ; extracting a brand essence ; the kama sutra of marketing - five basic positions ; framing to the right target audience ; structured creativity - framing tools ; creativity on demand - why ad agencies ca n't brainstorm ; feed their passions ; plan to have many conversations ; everything communicates ; storytelling - letting the genie out of the bottle ; branding and thinking two products ahead ; myth , magic , and making money the old-fashioned way ; aks ; jeff lloyd 's secret to commercial residential real estate sales ; how to turn every first sale into a residual stream of income ; direct response branding ; acknowledgements ; index mack states that successful branding comes when you start thinking two products ahead of the current sale . in other words , you need to be thinking about the overall story and impression that your company and product leaves with a customer . this collection of legends and perceptions defines your brand , not the cute logo or corporate colors you stick on your products . what that means is that you *have* a brand whether you think you do or not . you need to bring your customer into the `` marketing funnel '' , which is a four stage process : intrigue , consider , interested , and buy . when you get them to buy , then the `` two products ahead '' mindset turns them from one-off buyers to loyal customers . it 's all a matter of managing your brand ... the story that your customers tell about your company and product . this book started off as an e-book that the author marketed himself ( for a much higher price ) . his style of writing and communication is frank and blunt , with no room for dancing around an issue . as such , it 's a lot of fun to read . since i do n't have a marketing background , i found it a little difficult to keep the finer points of marketing vs. branding vs. selling straight at times . but overall , i got the message that your brand is a priceless asset , and it 's important to do everything you can to make sure that brand says the right thing to your customer . a valuable read for any business , but especially for the small business owner who does n't think he has a brand ... he does .