the return of cruelty and oppression the brave anna politkovskaya reveals the reality of russia today in this sad , sometimes horrifying book . after a brief window period of freedom under yeltsin , russia has rapidly become a vast swamp of corruption , oppression and deception under putin . politkovskaya tells of the trouble and suffering of ordinary people who are humiliated and exploited by the criminal nomenklatura . for example nina levurda , who in trying to establish the truth about her son 's death in the chechen war , became a victim of this system that when not cruel , is completely indifferent to the individual . this and other cases are discussed in the chapter my country 's army and its mothers . in russia , people imitate the man at the top , thus putin is the one who shapes russian society . it is mainly he who is to blame for the brutality and extremism prevalent in the army and the state apparatus . there are sections dealing with war criminals , brutality against privates in the military , government complicity in crime , the corruption in the judiciary , the struggle to survive in places like kamchatka , and racism against people with a non-slavic appearance . russia 's stability is of a monstrous type , where power means everything , few people hold the law in any regard , bribes keep business and the state running , and a free press has almost disappeared . putin 's bureaucrats have taken corruption to new records , unheard of even under yeltsin or the communists . as a lieutenant-colonel who never made it to the rank of colonel , he has the mentality of a soviet secret policeman . the yukos affair and the imprisonment of mikhail khodorkovsky demonstrate what a vindictive little man putin is and how he is steering the country towards fascism . this process of crushing dissent and stifling freedom has been escalating throughout putin 's first presidential term and shows no sign of abating during the second . the western press has mostly not showed great interest in this slide to oppression in russia . it is hard not to write russia off when confronted by the experiences in this book : the deliberate cruelties , the cold indifference and the manipulation of the media . mercifully there are still people like politkovskaya and lev ponomarev who are brave enough to speak out . this disturbing book concludes with explanatory notes containing references .