a complex tale of labor and strife , told with efficiency after `` l'assommoir '' and `` nana , '' i was accustomed to zola 's `` naturalist '' style of reporting the details and constructing a story to make a point about second empire society . but `` germinal '' surpasses those two , mainly due to zola 's efficiency . middle-class readers in his day were likely to have invested more time than contemporary readers in reading ( no search engines or video games in the late 19th century ) , so it 's understandable why `` germinal '' is so saturated with detail . that being noted , this is a masterfully written and passionate book that makes for fast reading . zola is at his best evoking the coal elevator , the movements of an enraged crowd , the gossiping wives of miners , etc. , giving the reader a clear description of the sights , sounds and smells of the moment . a few reviewers have interpreted this is a tale of oppresive capitalism . while much of symbolism ( the mine that eats the workers , the sufferings of catherine and so on ) could give that impression , this is story of disasterous ideology . set in 1866-1867 , when the civil war in the u.s. exacerbated the coal industry 's overcapitalization in france , etienne falls in love with the proto-socialist movement ( instead of catherine ) and sets off catastrophe . the episode in which etienne , chaval and catherine wait underground for their rescuers is a potent metaphor for his relationship with the miners . there are a number of very interesting characters in this book , who evolve to the decaying situations around them and often end up doing some very shocking things . sprinkled with references to darwin , `` germinal '' features multiple characters that seems to revert to animal-like behavior . whether zola was not into economic progress as some suggest here is debatable , but there can be no mistake that he wanted to show the tremendous sacrifices that are involved . the change to the timbering rules by the company , the charge by the miners to jean-bart , and the act of sabotage by the souvarine all have their disasterous unintended consequences . and it has been unintended consequences that defeated marxism . in this way zola was prophetic . chaval is mostly portrayed as a cruel man who represents the natural urges that etienne constantly battles . a very good website by a professor at washington state mentioned that `` chaval '' resembles `` cheval , '' which means `` horse . '' so the practicality , beast-of-the-mines existence of chaval is linked by name to the very sympathetic horses in this story . in this way chaval is a fully-developed character in `` germinal . '' does this book have contemporary interpretations ? during the week that i read this , there were two newspaper stories about coal mining . one in the weekend milwaukee paper , told of a labor shortage in american coal mines , where in pennsylvania and ohio , veteran miners are returning to the towns they once had to leave . soon afterward , the n.y. times described a tragic collapse in a coal mine in the central henan province of china , showing a picture of thin , grey-clad family members crowding a building next to the entrance to the mine , waiting for names of the survivors and the still missing . given the ( capitalist ) history of the u.s. and the ( communist ) history of china , would zola be surprised by the content of these two newspaper stories in 2004 ? coal mining in the u.s. , of course , is a segment of the economy of which many environmentalists disapprove ; its fate may be decided by the upcoming presidential election . zola 's `` germinal '' is a masterpiece ( i enjoyed the translation by leonard tanock ) , but its lessons may not be as simple as some readers may hope .