i truly enjoyed it , but i have a couple concerns let me start by saying that i thoroughly enjoyed this work . if you have n't read michener before , this is a great place to start . typical of michener , he tells the story of a region over the course of centuries in this book . michener has selected a particular river that feeds the chesapeake , the choptank , as his primary locale , but has populated it with geotypical persons , plantations , and towns , rather than any specific actual persons or towns from the eastern shore of the chesapeake . having grown up in maryland , i experienced a great deal of nostalgia for the areas he describes . the characters he creates are believable and complex . the stories he tells across the centuries are compelling . i do have three concerns . the first is minor -- in the green-covered paperback the word `` scow '' ( a flat-bottomed boat ) has been replaced with the word `` snow '' in every instance save one . this makes for some odd reading , especially in the early chapters . the second seems petty -- i actually believe there is not quite enough information in a nearly 1000-page novel . he mentions guano trade , which significantly affected the eastern shore , only in one sentence at the end of the book . he does n't explain some of the early economies very clearly . ( with what was salt purchased from tortuga ? there was no cash available , and credit with fithian seems unlikely to have extended there . ) islands other than the fictional devon island ( e.g . tighlman island ) suddenly become important at the end of the book , and are referenced as `` the old rivals of patamoke . '' if they are old rivals , why did n't they appear before ? did this get cut out of the book ? my third concern is a very strange charge to levy against michener . as anyone who has seen the musical `` south pacific '' knows , michener is strongly opposed to racism . certainly in this book there are whites , blacks , and indians of the full range of character and talent . however , the book still seems to have a strange racist undertone that i ca n't shake from my mind . it comes from how michener ties his story together across the centuries . every janney is feckless ( except for the one who becomes a steed ) . every steed is enterprising , although not necessarily industrious . every turlock is craven . every cater is proud , even if this is expressed differently across the generations . every paxmore is upstanding , even the sad-sack pusey paxmore believes he is acting in an upstanding manor until he looks back on what he 's done . one steed even refuses to acknowledge her own grandchildren because they have turlock blood in them , and is praised by the author for doing so . i realize that michener was using a shorthand to help the reader keep characters straight across the centuries , but the result is rather too `` geneticist , '' arguing that genes determine destiny