d.c. confidential . readers familiar with ross thomas ' work are likely to recognize a few of the characters in twilight at mac 's place from some of the author 's other novels . most notably , mac mccorkle and mike padillo , the restaurant owning duo with more than a passing knowledge of the dark arts associated with international espionage . twilight at mac 's place transpires in and around washington , dc during the month of january , 1989 . george h.w . bush has just been sworn in as president . the third person narrator helpfully reminds us that mr. bush is the first president to have previously served as director of central intelligence . that interesting bit of information helps to set the mood for the tale of cloak and dagger intrigue that is about to unfold . a man named steady haynes dies suddenly of natural causes the evening before the inauguration . though never officially an agent of the cia , haynes has spent most of his career unofficially facilitating the carrying out of some very nasty things on the agency 's behalf all over the world . when granville haynes , steady 's son and a former lapd homicide detective , comes to washington to attend his father 's funeral , he learns that steady had let it be known that he had recently written his memoirs . it soon becomes very apparent that there are people out there who do not want steady 's manuscript to ever see the light of day . and they are not above commiting murder to see that it does n't . the complex plot of twilight at mac 's place revolves around the younger mr. haynes , with the help of mccorkle and padillo , uncovering who the anonymous literary suppressors are . this very appealing book contains plenty of the byzantine twists and turns thomas is famous for . moreover , there are plenty of interesting characters and the dialogue is unfailingly smart and entertainingly clever . recommended to those readers who like their political mysteries laced with sophisticated humor and an insider 's view of the way washington does business .