great first hand account of aerial combat during the fall of france fighter pilot lays claim to being the first published account of aerial combat during the second world war . originally published anonymously during the war , the author literally flew missions during the day while meeting with the editor in pubs at night to finish the book . richey 's book reads like a daily journal of his adventures after deploying to france in 1939 to wait out the `` phony war . '' once germany blitzed france and the low countries though , things became very busy very quickly . richey , like his compatriots , fought bravely , but they were greatly outnumbered . as france 's defenses collapsed , there was very little they could do . one of the most interesting aspects is how his view of the war changes from before the shooting war through just a few weeks of real fighting . their original notion of their work is very chivalrous and idealistic , with lots of references to `` our turn '' to repeat the noble efforts of the aces from world war i . after downing their first german , they gather war trophies from the plane , take pictures , and invited a captured german pilot over for beer and celebration . a few weeks later , as the british expeditionary force continues to retreat , france collapses , and many of their squadron mates in the earlier photos have been killed , there is little chivalry and idealism left . they settle into the grim business of fighting for their life , realizing that the battle of france is lost and growing fear for what will happen to britain . even in comparing it to world war one accounts ( mccudden , lewis , or biddle ) , initially there is a lot of similarity in the events and encounters . then , it quickly spirals into a brutal onslaught . the book is easy to read and flows very well . most readers are probably surprised to learn the book finishes before the battle of britain begins . fortunately , there is a sequel , fighter pilot 's summer , that richey started during the war , but which was n't completed until after his death in the 1990 's . any aviation and world war ii history buff will be extremely happy with the book and primary source material . this is particularly true given the wealth of information on the battle of britain , but the dearth of writing on the air war over france that was the prelude . this book fills an important gap in first hand accounts of aerial combat during the battle for france .