great book for it 's honesty and and intellectual acumen having read this book in 1992 and recently purchased it for my collection , this a great read with various chapters based on history , politcal , and social mores of african- americans ( in the black corner ) and our archenemies white americans ( in the white corner ) . got to hype up the race war angle some of you white conservatives who are doing it in your reviews about this book . if you have a politcal agenda you will either like or hate hacker 's book based on your politcal afilliation , if you are a liberal , you may like the senstive and fair airing he gives towards the history of why we became two nations.if you are a conservative or neo- nazi type like the white racist from georgia that african- americans have no morals , or you will hate that he 's giving black folks a pass on their moral problems . well as a black nationalist who believes that intergration is bad social policy but a majority black commonwealth on american soil may be benefical , i think that historical factors presented in hacker 's book would prevent both sides from ever seeing each other in any rational sense as americans because 1 . whites see each other as intellectually , morally superior to african - americans ( even the lowest white trash person ) and will never consider them equal in the eyes of u.s. law or in their hearts 2 . african - americans ( especailly males ) will never forgive or forget what the majority white population did to their families , culture , livelihoods and community structures especailly after slavery . hacker has crafted an excellent book through great research and in many ways he is on point throughout the book , when he states the the majority white population will make hispanics and asians `` honoray whites '' demonizing black males for politcal and social advantage against charges of racism by blacks . and many of your reviewers are right about some blacks hating whites , i think 387 years of continual defacto racism would create some blacks who would hurt their fellow blacks ( in a self- destructive way ) whites and other citizens ( some blacks hate whites like the arabs hate jews ) .i consider that like the scene in the movie `` independence day '' , when `` president '' bill pullman asked the alien , pullman - can there be peace between our worlds alien - nooooooooo no peace ! ! ! ! pullman - what do you want from us ? alien i want you to die ! ! ! ! ! let the hate mail begin ! ! ! ! at least i was `` candid '' in our so- called dicussion on race