questioning what really drives the future ... i just had the pleasure of reading an advance copy of john naisbitt 's mind set ! : reset your thinking and see the future . there 's a lot in this book that i 'd like to recommend for those who think everything is `` the next big thing '' ... it 's really not . contents : part 1 - mindsets : most things remain constant ; the future is embedded in the present ; focus on the score of the game ; understand how powerful it is not to have to be right ; see the future as a picture puzzle ; do n't get so far ahead of the parade that they do n't know you are in it ; resistance to change falls for benefits ; things that we expect to happen always happen more slowly ; you do n't get results by solving problems , but by exploiting opportunities ; do n't add unless you subtract ; consider the ecology of technology part 2 - pictures of the future : culture - a visual culture is taking over the world ; economics - from nation-state to economic domains ; china - will the dragon devour us or will it be the dragon we ride ? ; europe - metamorphosis to history theme park ; our evolutionary era - no next big thing end notes ; index naisbitt , the author of megatrends , came up with a number of mindsets that can help someone understand where things are going in the future . from that initial list , he pared down the items until he came up with what he felt are the most important eleven items that matter . these mindsets , if understood , directly affect how you view current events and interpret your surroundings . for instance , it 's easy to look at each new technology and think that it will change everything . but in reality , the same underlying forces continue to drive people 's lives . business is in a constant state of flux , but it still ends up being all about buying and selling . in sports , the one-handed jump shot in basketball completely changed the look of the game in 1936 , but the game itself was still the same ... score a basket . once you strip away the fluff and hype , it 's easier to understand where the general flow of life is going . or my favorite ... do n't add something unless you subtract something . setting a cap on a situation ( be it a sports roster or a number of menu items in a restaurant ) forces you to weigh the merits of each item , keeping only the things that return value and dropping items that no longer measure up to the others . something to remember before you make yet another commitment ... part 2 of the book applies a number of these mindsets to different current events and situations . personally , i found this part of the book a bit more unfocused than the first . while i understand that the visual is becoming more important in today 's society , i had a hard time staying focused on where the chapter was going . he does tie the mindsets into the conclusions he draws , but i found the mindsets themselves to be more personally useful for my own life . definitely worth reading , even if you do n't necessarily agree with him on how the mindsets play out . i 'll be revisiting the mindsets a number of times to get them firmly embedded in my brain . and do n't be surprised if i turn down some `` adds '' because i 'm not ready to `` subtract '' something..