a great book for me at this time in my life i am in the infant stages of my conversion to judaism , and this book really cemented my conviction that this is the right decision for me . i felt that rabbi kushner clearly explained what judaism is all about to him and , in many instances , to me as well . the chapter dealing with the dietary laws i found particularly helpful and enlightening , as this is one of the most intimidating factors for me in converting to judaism and living as an observant jew . rabbi kushner 's explanations helped me understand the dietary laws in a different way , as allowing the sacred to enter into mealtimes -- which takes the focus off food -- and i immediately began `` keeping kosher '' to an extent . i did n't feel that this book slammed christianity , but i 'm not a christian so my perspective is decidedly one-sided . i did feel that this is a book about judaism , not about christianity . there are places where rabbi kushner compares and contrasts the two religions , but i did n't get the sense that he was saying , `` our way is better than your way . '' i did get the sense that he is a man who feels deeply connected to god , and sees his religion as the source of that connection . while it 's likely that a ( relatively ) small number christians would read this book , it seems to be intended for jews -- a book for jews about judaism , written by a jew . the references to christianity did not seem to be an instruction guide on christianity so much as a way for jews to understand their own religion within the context of modern american society , which is predominantly christian . if you are interested in learning more about judaism -- what do jews believe ? what is the jewish religion all about ? -- then i think this is a very good introduction . rabbi kushner 's explanations are easy to read and understand and at the same time very enlightening . do n't let this be the extent of your studies into judaism , but it is a fine place to start