delicious , with a wee aftertaste even in paperback this is a thick and heavy book , which is a compilation of several of mkf fisher 's individual works offering different aspects of her thoughts on food in terms of origin , recipes , culinary preparation , and history . in addition , it divulges her own observations on the whole dining experience that we as humans go through in terms of customs , etiquette , ambience , socializing and so forth . but what makes this book stellar is the eloquent , imaginative , and sometimes even haunting style of ms. fisher 's writing . she expresses her own thoughts and oftentimes outspoken opinions , mixing them with historical facts , tempting recipes , and home-cooked tales . with such a satisfying horn of plenty within the confines of two book covers , it is easy to understand why she still reigns as the queen of prose inspired by food and dining . i wish i had her ability to master in writing such joi de vivre and enthusiasm for food , eating , and drinking , which after all are such basic elements to our very existence . the section i enjoyed most of all was `` the gastronomical me '' , a biography-cum-travelogue in which she poignantly narrates her experiences by rendering them so lifelike that you can smell the smells and taste the tastes . she includes food episodes of her early years in california while growing up and later attending boarding school ; in dijon , france where the kitchens in restaurants and her apartments beckon you to partake of the offerings ; in switzerland where you visually can grasp the mountains and streams along train-rides she describes through the alps to italy ; and finally in a small mexican town , where she surpasses even the writing prowess demonstrated in her previous stories , by telling the most poignant tales . an interesting sidelight is that this book not only covers food . you gather early on that she is far from a teetotaler since alcoholic drinks and drinking at mealtimes too are frequent topics , from sipping wines and champagnes and glasses of pernod on ocean liners to mixing water with bourbon , which she keeps in a flask during a long , propeller-driven , airplane flight to mexico . the other sections i liked were the beginning ( serve it forth ) and consider the oyster . it amazed me that one person could write a whole expose covering around a hundred pages about only the oyster : the various types , methods of preparations , and culinary history . plus she gives her own personal memories and anecdotes too . you name it , she said it about oysters -- recipes included . i did not care as much for how to cook a wolf , as i could not relate to either the off-color humor or to some of the topics she presented . ( sorry , but sweetbreads , halves of calf heads , and brains were not appetizing subjects . ) also , i gave up finishing the book . i started to read `` an alphabet for gourmets '' , the last section , but got as far as `` d '' and could n't force myself to read through the rest of the alphabet . it seems to me by the time in her life when she wrote this section she had become rather cynical and bitter , to the extent that everything she wrote sounded condescending . this section was such a let-down , a depressant to me after coming off the high of `` the gastronomical me '' . although i exaggerate , she seemed to repeatedly state something to the effect that she preferred to dine alone on crackers and milk rather than face gourmet meals with uncultivated people ( with untrained palettes ) who were unsavvy as to the proper way food should be eaten in the first place and incapable of appreciating what they shoved in their faces in the second . anyway , other readers may disagree with me , but this last section lacks the consistency , and more important , the vibrancy and pep of her flowing , off-the-wall style that grows on you in the other sections . although i was a little disheartened at the end , her brilliance that shone through in the other sections more than outweighed the few negatives . i can recommend this book to everyone , especially to people who are interested in food as a literary subject in its own right instead of something that we simply cook and eat . of course , foodies and cooks alike should appreciate it . and though it does have some very good recipes as added bonuses , this should not be considered a cookbook ; instead , this book 's function is to serve up delicious tidbits for our minds and imaginations to savor and enjoy .