discworld i 've decided he 's too good and too prolific for me to write a brand new review every single time i read one of his books . discworld currently has 34 titles and every one of them will probably knock your socks off . his mind bubbles and flashes like a boiling pot of electric eels , and i simply ca n't get enough of his writing . a reviewer has compared him to geoffrey chaucer . he reminds me more of douglas adams , or perhaps s morgenstern . great company , is n't it ? he 's an extremely skillful and imaginative writer , damn funny , clever and observant to boot . he 's also very easy to read . a master of characterization , and if there 's anything else you like about reading that i did n't mention here , assume i simply forgot . he 's awesome . another reviewer mentioned jonathan swift and pg wodehouse . why such hallowed company ? because pratchett belongs there ! truly , i 'm enjoying my quest to read every book in the series . you should do the same , and begin your quest at the library because he 's got to be there . he 's awesome ! yet another reviewer said jerome k jerome meets lord of the rings . yeah , that works too . why do we , as reviewers , compare authors to other authors ? because it 's easier than thinking . in the case of terry pratchett , it 's probably because we 'd otherwise wind up quoting the guy . he 's so unique that we just do n't know how else to cope with his greatness . even this paragraph sounds like foamy drool raving , does n't it ? that 's how all readers react to pratchett . reviewers simply do n't have the good sense to keep it to themselves . i could call his writing fantasy , but i could likewise call what douglas adams wrote science fiction . in both cases , i would n't be wrong , but i 'd be neglecting so much and just totally missing the point . a rare few authors transcend a genre to such a degree that you know they 're shouting out , loud and proud , a big fat `` bite me ! '' i love terry pratchett 's writing , and i completely understand why some folks refer to him as their favorite author . or favourite , i should say , since we 're being british . he 's one of those authors that makes you want to grab whoever 's in hearing range and start reading passages aloud . i 'm simply thrilled that there 's such an extremely talented and prolific author who 's been working for years without me being aware of him . now i have much catching up to do , and i will love it .