great book , i loved it ! first , a word about the publishers . . . somewhere it is decreed , i suppose in the regency genre publishing house , that all `` regency romance '' books must be exactly 218 pages , no more and no less , so that if one author writes less , they make the letters nice and big , three paragraphs to a page . . . and if another author has a longer story , the publishers will squeeze ten paragraphs , in tiny letters , onto one page . . . this is one of the books where you have ten paragraphs ( or more ) per page , plus there is so much going on in the story that the plotline is constantly changing . . . for me , this made for some frustrating reading . but as for the story itself - this is my first by allison lane , and what i see , i like . i was pre-warned that she is a `` darker '' regency author , so that i did not find the issues explored in this story shocking . yes , it 's sad , but , unfortunately , there really are parents like that . ( today , since arranged marriages are not really `` done '' it will play out in the form of career , or how their children should live their lives . . . ) as for the character of reggie - he 's a really nice , sympathetic character , but i 'm afraid that his problem was a real one . maybe it 's uncommon , and he seems to have had an unusually bad case of it , but it is only today that they have medication for these problems ( those who have read the story know which medication i mean ) . i loved the heroine ! i hate to say this , but she sounds so exactly like me , that how can i not have loved this story ? miss joanna patterson was hired as a sort-of companion to lady harriet , to launch her into society - and to find her a husband , perferably a rich one . being rather plain , awkward , and bespecled besides , joanna has no such hopes for herself . lord sedgewick wylie is not only a dandy , but he is the biggest dandy of them all - actually , he is a social leader . always , always , impeccably dressed , always with perfect manners , lord sedgewick is as different from joanna as could possibly be . but what society does not know , and would possibly ridicule if they did , is that under that dandified clothing is a smart and educated man - and he is starting to get bored with the society role that he is playing . in short , this is a couple that is different as could possibly be , and would never have even looked at each other , if fate had not intervened , in not one , not two , but three separate `` accidents '' involving each other , the last one culminating in their forced marriage - although `` marriage '' for show , and `` marriage '' for real are two separate things entirely . . . quite early on in the book , i recognized the plot . yes , i was right . this book has a similar plot to `` the viscount who loved me '' by julia quinn . i checked the publishing dates to see `` who cheated '' but they were published quite closely together , actually this book was first . . . maybe this is a fairly common regency plot device , i have n't read enough regency books to know if this is so or not . and unlike some previous reviewers , i really liked the character of lord sedgewick . he is a refreshing change from the rakes , and more rakes , that seem to populate all the regency fare that i have read so far . although a dandy , he is responsible , and uses his position in society wisely - he actually tries to help people . he is not a rake , nor does he gamble in excess , or drink etc . etc . in short , in many ways a paragon . and although he does treat the heroine badly at some point in the book , his reasons are very clear , and believable , to me . besides , once he gets over his initial reaction , he does apologize , and he even comes to an understanding within himself as to why he treated her this way , and how he will change in the future . hey , you ca n't ask for much better than that . even if i am the only one , i do see a very nice future for the rest of their lives together . i like allison lane 's style . i like her complicated plots , i liked her *very '' complex characters , and i especially liker her *very* realistic portrayal of the issues she has chosen to deal with in this regency novel . this is one smart lady , and i really enjoyed her writing . i recommend this book for anyone who likes regencies a bit *darker* , but more realistic , and especially for those who like complicated plots with full-fleshed characters , created by an extremely intelligent author