the patrol is ordered to destroy the 'queen' `` plague ship '' ( 1956 ) was one the first science fiction novels i ever checked out of our local library ( i can still close my eyes and see that one dinky little shelf , crammed with some of sfs ' greatest juvenile authors : norton ; heinlein ; del rey ; nourse ) . this book contains the second 'solar queen ' adventure . norton 's four-book series about the trader-crew of the 'solar queen ' ended in 1969 with `` postmarked the stars '' but beware ! lesser authors have butted into the series , presumably with norton 's permission since this remarkable gandalf grand master of fantasy and nebula grand master just recently passed away after a long and extremely fruitful career ( her first novel was published in 1934 , her latest fantasy in 2005 ) . one 'solar queen ' rip-off to avoid at all costs is `` redline : the stars . '' norton 's 'solar queen ' stories are told from the viewpoint of dane thorson , an apprentice-cargo master who is introduced in `` sargasso of space , '' the first 'solar queen ' novel , as a `` lanky , very young man in an ill-fitting trader 's tunic . '' most of this author 's heroes and heroines are young , uncertain of themselves , shy , with a tendency to trip over their own enthusiasms and load themselves up with guilt at the slightest opportunity . they are very likeable and their adventures are narrated in remarkably lean prose with just the right touch of description . after ten years of schooling , orphan dane thorson is assigned via a computer analysis of his psychological profile -- not to a safe berth on a sleek company-run starship that his classmates were vying for -- but to a battered tramp of a free trader . to say that the 'solar queen ' `` lacked a great many refinements and luxurious fittings which the company ships boasted '' was an understatement . but she was a tightly-run ship and what she lacked in refinement , she made up for in adventure . dane soon settles in under cargo master van rycke and learns `` to his dismay what large gaps unfortunately existed in his training . '' sometimes i just want to give dane a big hug . `` plague ship '' takes the crew of the 'solar queen ' to sargol , where the enigmatic feline natives seem very reluctant to trade away their fabulous scented gemstones . when dane thorson discovers an herb that the salariki are willing to swap for their gems , he fears that his eagerness to make a trade breakthrough might have poisoned a native child . that becomes the least of his worries when the 'solar queen ' blasts off from sargol with invisible , undetectable stowaways that would brand the free traders anathema to all inhabited worlds . in space , the more senior members of the 'solar queen 's ' crew succumb to a strange plague that resembles sleeping sickness . dane and his fellow-apprentices , with the assistance of captain jellico 's hoobat ( a sort of blue parrot-lizard , or at least that 's how i 've always pictured it ) discover the source of the plague : venomous hitch-hikers from sargol . `` it walked erect on two threads of legs ... a bulging abdomen sheathed in the horny substance of a beetle 's shell ended in a sharp point . '' it was only about a foot-and-a-half high and could change color like a chameleon . the hoobat kills and eats the first creature , and then the hunt is on for others of its kind . even with the source of the sleeping sickness discovered , the 'solar queen 's ' young apprentices must still convince the rest of the galaxy that they are not a plague ship -- and therefore eligible to be destroyed on sight without warning . the 'solar queen ' novels are prime representatives of norton 's lean action-packed brand of story-telling ( at least the ones she solo-authored . ) if you have n't read them since you were a teen-ager , i urge you to try them again . for a few pleasant hours , you will be immersed in the adventures of a likeable , feisty band of free traders on exotic , carefully-drawn alien worlds .