apocalypse , fairy tale , farce -- what is this thing ? is it a sci-fi tale about the end of the world , black comedy , novel of inner pilgrimage , or a southern small-town novel like to kill a mockingbird ? all of these , and none , quite . you can catch snippetts of the plot and setting from other reviewers . but trying to squeeze this weird , topsy-turvy , yet familiar world into a few words is like trying to put the bubble bath back in the bottle . ideas and images float up in flurries . or maybe we should define love in the ruins by its characters ? each is as brilliantly drawn as a blade of grass in the first bright rays of morning . not all are mad , in the conventional sense , though thomas more , the drunken , philandering , brilliant , pious hero , who somewhat resembles the author , sometimes is . `` dear god , let me out of here , back to the nuthouse where i can stay sane . things are too naked out here . people look and talk and smile and are nice and the abyss yawns . the niceness is terrifying . '' percy also offers three lovely leading ladies , a tribe of black revolutionaries , `` love '' scientists , `` knotheads , '' a `` scoffing irish behaviorist , in whom irony is so piled up on irony , jokes so encrusted on jokes , winks and nudges and in-jokes so convoluted '' that he has turned orthodox , and a pretty spooky satan in flannel . maybe the best way to introduce this book , aside from saying that it often made me laugh outloud , and often made me think , is to quote a few more lines . if you like the taste , want to sup more on the strangeness of life ( the quality by which reality so often surpasses mere novels ) , you 'll probably want to read the book . ( 1 ) `` max the unbeliever , a lapsed jew , believes in the orderliness of creation , acts on it with energy and charity . i , the believer , having swallowed the whole thing , god jews christ church , find the world a mad-house and a madhouse home . max the atheist sees things like saint thomas aquinas , ranged , orderly , connected up . '' ( 2 ) `` ethel 's car is both japanese and presbyterian , thrifty , tidy , efficient , chaste . '' ( 3 ) `` the terror comes from piteousness , from good gone wrong and not knowing it , from southern sweetness and cruelty . . . in louisianna people still stop and help strangers . better to live in new york where life is simple , every man 's your enemy , and you walk with your eyes straight ahead .