what 's beneath your syntactic interface ? maggie balistreri 's critique of our masked , substantively evasive dialect offers humorous , albeit troubling , insight into how much of the social fabric , the prevailing belief structures and cultural processes , are entrenched in mass denial , subsisting on and predicated upon the avoidance of truth and meaning within common , everday conversations and exchanges . think of it as speaking in riddles . unfortunately , it 's done considerable damage in shaping the broader public discourse . this particular deficiency is widely adhered to on an unconscious level , to the extent that it 's accepted as 'normal ' . let 's suppose that the majority of a population shared a common mental illness , a soul sickness ; is n't it possible , even likely , that over time , a greater percentage of them would be unable to acknowledge the disease ... *as a disease ? * and by that postulation , would n't the afflicted then in turn deem those not likewise effected by it as the ones who are sick , weird , bad , wrong , etc ? with people generally unaware of this process ( and likely uninterested in it ) they are incapable of acknowledging how cognition and grammer are fused in a manner indicative of a deficient , or at least insufficient , mode of consciousness and expression which is congrous to self deception , mass deception , and in turn , self and societal censorship . this elaborate process largely stems from the `` just do it '' corporatized mentality . the underlying , strategic message of `` just do it '' is do n't think . that is , do n't think beyond the superficialities of life : of a mindless , wage slave existence relegated to the various conformities of rampant consumerism , and all it entails to define human worth and `` success '' on such terms . when people do n't think beyond those terms , when the customary , daily round of life is beset with a deluge of incentives and inducements toward desensitization and immediate gratification rooted in the manipulation and exploitation of innate human insecurities , often through induced signals and social cues concerning inadequacy , fear , anxiety , the result is an unthinking , non critical , homogeneous conformity among the populace where the surrender or denial of critical thought , genuine expression and emotional respression is widely encouraged , enabling an overall acceptance and exaltation of a unique spiritual and intellectual paralysis . logically it follows that since most are environmentally impacted and absorbed into this deficiency , its symptoms and manifestations are largely viewed as the opposite of what they really are , allowing for a delusional , happy consciousness . language reflects this . my take on what maggie is addressing in her book is n't a random social trend , and that there is n't necessarily a direct correlation with this dilemma and a person 's overall intelligence or vocabulary ; it 's an inevitable byproduct of poisonous , corporatized values . the proof is how corporate power , which is basically the hierarchy of government , so obviously benefits in every way from the crisis of social and spiritual declivity . the greater the degree of ignorance , apathy , and general disharmony , the greater profits to be made from human misery , and the more draconian measures that can be implemented by exploiting the symptoms which then serves to frighten people into being less independent minded and more stupified , perpetuating the cycle . the psychological dynamics of these cycles are fairly simple to figure out provided people are encouraged to do so . if they 're not sufficiently roused into paying attention to matters of great public import ( something that the media should do but of course does just the opposite ) than naturally , the people 's language and efforts of communication are going to reflect a particularly narrow mindset . `` loyalty to petrified opinion never broke a chain or freed a human soul '' ~ mark twai