a giant among giants some books are optional . `` the worm ouroboros '' , by e. r. eddison , is not . it is more than just the birth of high fantasy writing as we know it . it is a tale that connects with imagination and wonder in a way that books today simply do n't do . when you read `` the worm ouroboros '' you 'll realize that modern writers produce stories , but they do n't tell stories . since the english language fails to provide me with adequate superlatives for this review , i 'll just have to present samples of eddison 's writing : `` but a great wonder of this chamber , and a marvel to behold , was how the capital of every one of the four-and-twenty pillars was hewn from a single precious stone , carved by the hand of some sculptor of long ago into the living form of a monster : here was a harpy with a screaming mouth , so wonderously cut in ochre-tinted jade it was a marvel to hear no scream from her : here in wine-yellow topaz a flying fire-drake : there a cockatrice made of a single ruby : there a star sapphire the colour of moonlight , cut for a cyclops , so that the rays of the star trembled from his single eye : leviathans , all hewn from faultless gems , thrice the bulk of a big man 's body , velvet-dark sapphires , crystolite , beryl , amethyst , and the yellow zircon that is like transparent gold . '' ( 7 ) everyone can write description , but only eddison could write description like this . he makes the colors shine brighter and the shapes of the `` monsters '' stick out in your mind . and even though you may not know what a crystolite looks like , you agree that it fits perfectly into this paragraph . eddison realized that you ca n't a world that mirrors the heroic past if you get stuck in the decidedly un-heroic language of modern times . `` now had they for three days or four a devious journey through the foot-hills , and thereafter made their dwelling for forty days ' space in the zia valley , above the gorges . here the valley widens to a flat-floored amphitheatre , and lean limestone crags tower heavenward on every side . high in the south , couched above great gray moraines , the zia glacier , wrinkle-backed like some dragon survived out of the elder chaos , thrusts his snout into the valley . here out of his caves of ice the young river thunders , casting up a spray where rainbows hover in bright weather . the air blows sharp from the glacier , and alpine flowers and shrubs feed on the sunlight . '' ( 153 ) perhaps it 's because i 'm a mountain-climber myself , but i found juss and brandoch daha 's assault on koshtra pivrarcha to be the most memorable chapter in a book built out of unforgettable chapters . in real life no two mountain ranges are alike , yet most fantasy authors write only staid standard-issue descriptions when they make mountains . eddison understood that for us to see the glaciers , feel the biting cold winds , and experience the exhilaration of reaching the summit with the heroes , he needs to give his mountains some real personality . these samples , of course , only scratch the surface of eddison 's brilliant mix of visceral detail and towering metaphor ; he maintains this level , never flagging , for all two hundred thousand words . but of course `` the worm ouroboros '' could hardly have claimed such a lofty space in the pantheon of imaginative fiction without a plot and character worthy of this lavish writing . on one side king gorice xii of witchland sends his warriors out to crush all opposition and subjugate the entire world to his will . opposing him are the adventure-loving lords of demonland , lead by the magnificent lord juss and his family . the ensuing conflict will rage on land and sea , across continents and mountain ranges . and without any doubt eddison crafts his dialogue with the same mastery he displays in his narration : `` la fireez , '' said juss , `` we weigh not so lightly our obligation unto thee . yet must i hold my course ; having sworn a strong oath that i would turn aside neither to the right nor to the left until i had delivered my dear brother goldry out of bondage . so sware i or ever went that ill journey to carce and was closed in prison fast and by thee delivered . nor shall blame of friends nor wrongful misprison nor any power that is shake me in this determination . but when that is done , no rest remaineth unto us till we win back for thee thy rightful realm of pixyland , and many good things besides to be a token of our love . '' said the prince , `` thou doest right . if thou didst other thou'dst have my blame . '' `` and mine thereto , '' said gaslark . `` do not i grieve , think'st thou , to see the princess armelline , my sweet young cousin , grow every day more wan o ' the cheek and pale ? and all for sorrow and teen for her own true love , the lord goldry bluszco . and she so carefully brought up by her mother as nothing was too dear or hard to be bought to pass for her desire , thinking that a creature so noble and perfect could not be trained up too delicately . i deem to-day better than to-morrow , and to-morrow better than his morrow , to set sail for wide-fronted impland . '' ( 315 ) one of the most commonly used review terms is larger than life . `` the worm ouroboros '' is larger than larger than life . indeed , after finishing you may wonder whether it would be more appropriate to refer to real life as `` smaller than eddison ''