wicked good guide i fell in love with this guide after unhappily perusing the lonely planet , time out , let 's go , and other assorted guides to the city . i 'm in the proces of moving to boston , so i did n't want chapters and chapters about hostels and tourist meccas and boston history ( for that , i 'll buy a real book ) . mainly , i wanted something i could use to get myself around the city and figure out the neighborhoods ( looking for an apartment from a few thousand miles away is n't that easy , let me tell you , espcially when you have no idea where all the places are , and the local bookstore was n't stocking any 'moving to boston ' books ) . so this little black guidebook , hiding out behind frommer 's guide to new england , was a blessing . the main difference -- and advantage -- this guide has over the others is that it is map-based rather than text-based . each section of the city has about three maps in the book , one showing essentials ( banks , hostpitals , landmarks , libraries , schools , and of course , donuts ) , one showing sundries/entertainment ( bars , coffee , copy shops , gyms , liquor stores , movie theatres , restaurants , and shopping ) , and a final covering transportation ( subway , bus lines ( ! ) , car rental , and parking ) ; of course , all the streets are labeled as well . this alone would have made me buy the guide , but behind these maps , the guide discusses the parks , convention centers , ballparks -- and provides floorplans for them if you ever want to buy tickets for events . it has listings for universities and colleges , it explains the commuter rail , amtrak , how to get to the stations . it has a full page of 24-hour services ! ! ( something i 've found severely lacking in other guides ) it lists libraries , hospitals , police stations , boston movies , books , songs , art galleries , it has floor plans of theatres ! ! three pages of bookstores ! a full street index ( like in the best city maps , london a to z ) , a fold-out highway/driving map of downtown ... gasp . this is possibly the most perfect guide to boston i could think of , the guide i would have written and designed if i were a guidebook writer . and one of the best , coolest things is that there is a little elastic band on the back cover so you can hold the thing closed ( and , by extension , put stuff in the book and then keep it there so it 's not falling out , like in a moleskin notebook , if you know what i mean . very useful for notes and reservation sheets and tickets ) . the book itself is extremely compact , probably 5 by 7 inches ( ? ) , which means that the type is very small ( i 'd estimate about 7pt ? ) , so that might be the one thing some people might have a problem with . myself , i am a big fan of the size ( of the guide and the font ) because then there 's just that much more you can fit into a small space