a big ego proves to be both an essential asset and worst enemy . `` pit bull '' is the trading memoir of martin `` buzzy '' schwartz , multimillionaire stock and futures trader who won the `` champion trader '' title in the 1984 u.s. trading championship , the `` most money made '' title in 1983 , and conquered the futures division in 1992 . he made a lot of money too , but mr. schwartz loves the limelight and a good competition . the book starts in 1979 , when schwartz abandoned his 9-year career as a securities analyst to trade his own money on the floor of the new york stock exchange , and progresses through his tumultuous , exciting trading career until the mid-1990s . schwartz sometimes digresses to relate incidents of his childhood and youth , illustrating that he was always a gambler by nature , so `` pit bull '' has some qualities of an autobiography . schwartz ' story is peppered with trading advice , and many of its best moments are when he describes his experiences during specific market events , such as his losses when the market surged after the 1980 presidential election , the idiosyncrasies of trading on the merc , and october 1987 's black monday and its aftermath . martin schwartz has a big personality and a frank sense of humor that keep the reader entertained . it seems he was both a success and a failure , having succeeded in making himself quite wealthy but not always wealthy enough for his tastes . but he gives the impression that he enjoys trading immensely most of the time . `` pit bull '' concludes with `` the pit bull 's guide to successful trading '' in 30 pages , for those seeking insight into martin schwartz ' success on the markets . it 's a pretty handy guide in which schwartz lists the trading tools and market analysis services that he uses , outlines his techniques for using moving averages and some chart patterns , and summarizes how he plays stocks and futures . that 's followed by a description of `` my typical day '' . `` pit bull '' is fun , i instructional , and easy to read . i was surprised that mr. schwartz sometimes tries to anticipate -or bet against- the market instead of following it . but sometimes he got burned . no surprise there