brilliant thud memoire the f-105 is a most fascinating aircraft . a superb cold-war design ; it was meant to be a sort of man-guided supersonic cruise missile for delivery of nuclear weapons to tactical targets in the european theater . it was , of course , never used for this purpose , but was instead put to a use in the air war over vietnam . the thud was never meant to be a precision dive bomber , or to pass through heavily defended areas at subsonic speeds . all the same , politicians dictated this use ( and of course went looking for someone besides themselves to blame when their `` top fighter-bomber '' started getting shot down in heroic quantity ; so many were shot down , there were n't enough seasoned men to continue to fly them . they were shot down in so many myriads , fresh out of pilot school fighter-bomber jocks , or long grounded middle-aged desk jockies would be put directly into combat ( where they would often be shot down ) . the men who flew this jet were , as the cliche goes , a special breed of heroes . unlike , say , fighter pilots or b-52 pilots , they faced almost certain death , or horrible imprisonment . their survival rate was comparable to that of the b-17 tailgunner over germany in ww-2 ; very low indeed . oftentimes their missions were secret in nature , so the government could n't even acknowledge that the thud had been shot down and work for the release of the pilot . major rasimus ' memoire takes place at a crucial escalation in the war ; in 1966 . the johnson administration decided to escalate the war by `` sending messages '' to the north vietnamese via the use of bombing as a psychological and diplomatic tool . the hare-brained scheme was that , by bombing one thing , and not another , the nva would be trained , like a pet dog is trained with a rolled up newspaper . the idea was ridiculous , and of course did n't work . rasimus was one of those unsung heroes who , fresh out of pilot school , grew enormous handlebar moustaches to protect them from evil on their impossible missions . he tells the tales of the base dog , roscoe , and of various of his team , and those who came after . you can practically smell the oil on the tarmac , and the blackpowder charges which combat-started the '105 's engines . while americans would rather forget the war in vietnam , i ca n't forget the courage of these men who fought in these insane supersonic contraptions . may their spirit inspire a new generation of warriors . thanks ed ; for your service and your great book