a tale replete with rich detail pros : development of setting , characters , and interweaving stories . cons : some might find the degree of detail too heavy and slowing . i usually start by describing some of the plot , but the story-lines are only about a third of this book 's considerable charm . so . . . the setting : this is an alternate history tale , as far as the setting goes . it takes place on earth , and more preciously in ( what is left of ) england . but , this earth had no ice age , it was struck by an object ( popularly believed to have been a meteor ) that caused the sundering ( the seas rose , the land was mostly submerged , cultures lost touch with one another , the climate changed drastically ) , and humans live side-by-side with mastodons , mammoths , glyptodonts , and other creatures that did not perish ( because there was no ice age ) . the result is an isolated england , that retains much of its past , but has culturally evolved away from what it is ( to us ) . the characters : i am not sure that i have ever read another book that is populated by this many quirky , interesting , amusing , well-developed characters . these are very realistic people , living in a surreal time . even their names are colorful , quirky , and interesting : dr. pinches , mrs. matchless , mr. threadneedle , tim christmas . the characters and the writing speak strongly of a dickensian influence , but is definitely also just plain jeffrey barlough 's . the plots : yes , i did say `` plots '' in the plural . there are three , distinct story-lines , that share some characters and the same setting and time period . the woes of ms. jane wastefield is what i would entitle one story-line , wherein a beautiful young woman receives a birthday present that terrifies her father to death and then haunts her every waking moment . how can she be rid of the fiendish thing ? ! who can help her ? everyone wants to , but no one seems to know how . will she succumb ? would defeat be as terrible as she fears ? and what about her pet monkey ? the wizarding notions would be a good title for the story-line about mr. threadneedle , his apprentice tim christmas , and whatever they are tinkering with out in the coach-house . can they make it work ? will everyone be shocked ? will anyone believe them , without seeing the finished product ? will mr. threadneedle find some peace and enjoyment , if he succeeds ? the secret of the will is what bothers another set of characters . when rich old joseph cargo died , he left most of his estate to his favorite nephew , but who is jerry squailes , and why does he get one-fourth of the money ? no one knows , and young frederick cargo , spurred on by his shrewish wife and aided by their elderly , honest attorney , mr. liffey , go on a mission to uncover the truth . will they like the truth , when and if they find it ? will that thing kill any of them before they do solve the mystery of jerry squailes , the unknown heir ? my take : this book is some of the best escapist reading i have ever found . the world described is so different ( but not ) and so replete with interesting characters , that it becomes a great place to retreat to . the writing is very detailed , with tremendous development of setting , characters , and the interweaving stories . it is truly a fascinating journey to take , and the ending ( s ) is not how hollywood or fairy tales would do it , with a panoply of happily-ever-after . however , it is also not depressing . this tale is just plain well done . the bottom line this is a very memorable experience that takes you to a different place and tells you an interesting tale about amusing characters . recommended : yes