an hr managment tool to share with those `` special employees '' there are employees who we know are smart and they conflict in any number of ways with management or with others within the organization . this book helps hr managers help their business owners and corporation shapers get into the thick skulls of those special employees that are shining stars on the verge of becoming supernovas . corporations many times are charged with terminating an employee or facing the challenge of having an employee that is extremely talented terminate their employment , only to find out that this is basically unnecessary if they can successfully negotiate the behaviors of the employees so that it better serves the businesses ' need , not just the narcassist needs of the employee . yes , they work hard , but the company is in fact compensating them for that with the cars , cash and other perks they so successfully earn , and if they did n't perform , would n't earn those things . it 's time that business managers and their hr people take back their responsibility and partnership of helping build successful employee careers by sharing with them the challenges and insights they face in building their companies successfully . fortune 500 executives face these challenges , just as smaller companies do . get out of your own way at work helps these supernovas realize before they self-destruct their careers , someone elses or far worse , the business ' success , where they may be playing the part within this challenge , not just passing the buck and blame over to others , or taking advantage in ways that end up blowing up in their faces , making a mess of their futures or the company 's . i triped over this book as an hr manager searching for tools to help my business owner/manager successfully navigate a similar problem . it should be required reading for all entry level employees ( along with another favorite of mine `` the rules of work and the rules of management '' . because employees step out of the academic world usually and then enter the business world , there are no hard fast rules , even if you attended an executive business university to guide you in how to manage yourself in the environment , or were raised with the self-disclipine required to be successful in the business world . these tools of knowledge are like boot-camp for entering the business world . hr folks suffer in silence trying to help these people and because its really up to them to get the business procedures and policies of the company when told to them , this book helps communicate to them what they do n't get or what businesses usually do n't think they need to communicate during the hiring process because any other behavior is cause for disciplinary action . the behaviors described in this book suit all types of industries and organizations . dr. goulston explains it so brilliantly and seamlessly , it 's clear what our choices should be if we still exhibit the same behaviors after one is assigned to reading it because there is a chapter within the book about how the guilt of these descision effects us about the tough-love we should make if they do n't get it . for those rare few that your organization seeks to help and no end to the frustruation or how to communicate it to those that create it , this book is a treasure for growth and career development within the business environment , no matter what the employee 's behavior is . i believe that if applied the insights within this book can help prevent these behaviors from developing or derail if read early in one 's own career . even if hr people read it and share the knowledge with their owner/managers , it will tune us and our business owners and corporations shapers into how to recognize it early enough in an employee to help manage to getting rid of it . if you have anyone in your organzation that sounds like what i 've described here , do yourself a favor and get this book and make it required reading within your organzation