boring but interesting . does that make sense ? the story is very boring . a middle class family has high aspirations for obtaining upper class status and this `class consciousness ' controls everything they think and do . despite their foolishness , one ca n't help but feel sorry for each character ( with the exception of the mother ) who continually finds failure and disappointment . the characters are not developed to the point that i usually enjoy , and there are quite a large number of characters . an interesting thing about the characters is , none of them are `good . ' probably the closest thing to a good character is virgil 's boss , mr. lamb . but even he is a business monger , ultimately concerned with his own business . this reflection on man is insightful . in real life , are there any people without flaws ? major flaws ? even the bible presents the heroes of the faith as people with big problems ( king solomon was a womanizer , david was a murderer , peter was a coward , etc. ) . in general , people are selfish . our motives are selfish , and our own desires drive everything we do . however , often fiction reflects one or two main characters who are flawless . in an attempt to make characters likable- reality is bypassed . this does n't happen here in alice adams . i believe this book is about expectations . the adams ' family lives in the false hope of a brighter future , all the while neglecting the life they are currently living . i feel that this is the same discontenting experience that westerners face . maybe this is even a reflection of the way the author wrote the book- seemingly slow , but with flashes of brilliant foreshadowing which gives hope to the reader that something more grand is on the horizon . the story is interesting because of the absolute stupidity of this family , and the fact that it probably is a very real experience for many . the story , though slow , is written very well , and was very easy for me to read ( a plus for me , i am a bit slow ) . it is also interesting because even though the story takes place in america- it seems a different culture . this different culture was interesting . i think the difference came in that the story is supposed to have taken place in the south ( a foreign country as far as i am concerned ) , and it probably took place in the very early part of the 20th century . one aspect of tarkington 's writing that i appreciated was the way he foreshadowed things . maybe i appreciated the subtle foreshadowing hints because of the drudgery of the story , but whatever the reason- i think he did an excellent job .