colonial conspiracies and drama similar to other books in his us history series , vidal engages the reader immediately into conspiracies and dramas by introducing a wide panorama of characters . vidal is able to use burr 's assistant , charles schuyler , as the chief storyteller , allowing the narrative to skip around through time . vidal likes to have the narrator tell the reader that the past `` is n't like it is now , '' which he would not be able to do if the story followed a strict chronological series . characters are given incredible depth as they all have their dark faults to go with their heroic strengths . vidal takes shots at the big guys . some shots are substantial ( like saying washington was a poor leader who never lead the army into a victory and only won the war because of france ) and some are petty ( washington repeatedly viewed as having a `` big butt '' and often referred to as `` waddling '' ) . jefferson is especially scrutinized . besides the ubiquitous presence of light-skinned slaves insinuated to be of the jefferson line , jefferson is portrayed as a cold , calculating `` philosopher king '' who uses the constitution when it supports his causes , but calls for `` states rights '' when the constitution contradicts him . aaron burr , who despite all the nasty politicking going on around him , is portrayed as a gentleman who is constantly antagonized by his peers for trying to do the right thing . how he obtains so much power in the state of new york is not really pursued except to say he is a war hero . also , tammany is often mentioned in the background , but burr 's involvement is not pursued . however , burr is always described as having control of the new york constituencies that he can influence when making deals with the virginia `` junta . '' my only negative critique is i find it hard to believe that burr was vilified by conspirators without having character flaws that might have contributed to his rise and fall . burr is always the benevolent gentleman while the other power mongers of the day ( washington , jefferson , and hamilton ) are self-aggrandizing double-crossers without conscience . vidal freely flings the mud at other historical heroes , but seems a little too defensive and paranoid about the reputation of aaron burr . still , the book is rich with historical vignettes of burr 's meetings with various patriotic heroes . vidal writes with enough veneration to let you know the characters are great and enough vindication to make them real .