`` a visit in the damp and dark will serve much better than the lark ... '' donna jo napoli 's trademark technique of fleshing out a fairytale is in fine display in `` the magic circle , '' her retelling of `` hansel and gretel '' . napoli 's stories often reveal motivations behind some of the action that takes place in the traditional fairytales , reasoning out some of the fantastic elements and explaining the behaviour of the familiar characters ; which usually results in the villain becoming more sympathetic and understandable . such is certainly the case in `` the magic circle '' , in which she explores the background of hansel and gretel 's wicked witch . the hunchback woman is known as the ugly one by all her neighbours , but has the gift of healing which she uses to aid pregnant women and sick people in her medieval europe community . she is the proud mother of a beautiful little girl called asa , and enjoys her simple life as midwife in her country cottage . but her friend bala has other ideas , getting her work with wealthy families and in researching demonic activity so that ugly one may earn some more money - with much of the proceeds going to bala of course . ugly one is unsure about extending her talents to exclude exorcisms , knowing the danger is extremely great , but as a devout christian and a healer she feels compelled to comply with bala 's wishes - surely god will aid her , and no harm will come to her if she places herself within a magic circle that will protect her from the demons ' tricks . after cleansing a little boy from a demon 's influence , ugly one knows that she has found her new calling in life . but once several years pass , her confidence in her own abilities grow and in a mistake that will haunt her forever , she is careless with the protective magic circle . what follows is an escalating series of events that has her transformed into a witch by the vengeful demons and tied to a stake by the terrified villagers . bartering with the demons for her daughter 's life , ugly one manages to use her newfound malevolent powers to escape and hide in the forest . in napoli 's book the term `witch ' is used in the traditional christian sense , not the new age one , so be prepared for a negative usage of the word ( personally i found it quite refreshing this way - evil witches are so rare these days ! ) however , it 's not so black and white , for though ugly one can no longer shed tears , bleed or sleep , has demons whispering in her ears and an appetite for children , she is determined to not give in to her weaknesses . living in isolation , she manages to keep the demons at bay - until she hears the voices of two lost children outside her home ... napoli 's story is poignant and thought-provoking , as she raises questions concerning the nature of evil , the will of god and the strength of the individual against temptation . like all her other books , her spin on a traditional folktale is fascinating and will change your perception of `` hansel and gretel '' forever . although her interpretation of the gingerbread house is a little weak and a revelation concerning bala is raised only to be ignored , `` the magic circle '' is an intriguing little book . the demons and magical rituals mentioned are all based in real biblical and occult study ( so you 'll learn something practical alongside the retold fairytale ! ) and its length means you can probably finish it within a day . though it is not my favourite napoli novel ( that would have to be `` zel '' and `` spinners '' ) , `` the magic circle '' is a great little read .