good beginning to series after working in a church in boston and another in washington , d.c. , minister ed wilcox and his family have transferred to the consolidated community church in emerald springs , ohio . his wife , aggie , initially has her doubts about settling down in a small town , but eventually she , ed , and their two young children find themselves making friends , except for elderly parishioner gelsey falowell who despises ed and wants to get rid of him . gelsey 's wish may come true when the naked body of a murder victim is left on the wilcox 's front porch and ed , who had been counseling the dead woman , is the chief suspect . aggie knows that ed is innocent but wonders why ed is keeping secrets from her especially when her daughter teddy tells her she saw her father fighting with the dead woman . when a second murder is committed and detective kirkor roussos seems to suspect ed committed both crimes , aggie , with the help of her friend , real estate agent lucy jacobs , begins investigating the murders . the more aggie looks into the crimes the more she realizes that people , especially gelsey , have secrets that have been buried for years and some people will kill to have them remain secret . `` blessed is the busybody '' is a good beginning to what looks to be a good mystery series . the characters are well written and well defined . the mystery is written from the view point of aggie , revealing various bits of her unconventional childhood , plus her struggles to raise her children especially oldest daughter deena , who at eleven is just starting to rebel a little bit . both teddy and deena are well written and come across as real children . aggie 's friend lucy is so well written that i could picture here while reading the book . ed comes across as a bit bland , but i suspect that will change in future books . author emilie richards does a good job describing small town life and the secrets hidden there and the town itself was like a character in the book . the mystery is well written with plenty of surprising secrets slowly revealed as the book goes on . the mystery is complex yet satisfying , if a bit sad . but there 's a nice gentle humor throughout the book that takes the edge off the sadder elements . `` blessed is the busybody '' is well worth reading .