the lights are going out all over europe ... `` the guns of august '' documents the events , conversations , strategies , and expectations that unfolded across europe from july to september 1914 . to brutally paraphrase the 500 pages of barbara tuchman 's genius ... .in regards to the outbreak of world war i , virtually everything that was expected did n't happen , and everything that could have gone wrong did . contrary to the `` domino effect '' jargon we 're taught in high school ( the war was a spontaneous reaction to archduke ferdinand 's assassination ) , tuchman illustrates quite convincingly ( as german primary sources have supported ... read kaiser wilhelm ii and general moltke 's speeches and memoirs ) , this war had years in the planning . in the movie `` thirteen days '' , president kennedy uses the book as a means to deride his hawkish generals and what he considers their poor sense of long-sighted policymaking . he uses the mistakes made by the generals in `` the guns of august '' as examples . but the book is not about the idiocy of generals , or even politicians . the book does not lay blame or point fingers . and when the book does pass judgment ( stubborn joffre 's plan 17 should have been aborted much sooner ) , it reciprocates in later pages ( joffre 's stubbornness helps turn the german right flank ) . the one question underlying the entire book is `` what if ? '' what if the belgians at liege had n't fought ? what if von kluck had n't swung his first and second armies inland ? what if britian had refused to add its troops to the french sixth army ? what if the german captain had n't been killed and the german hq battle plans not been intercepted ? every page offers these `` what ifs '' , and it keeps the reader on his/her toes . this book also shuts up the armchair generals who glance over a war , like a road crew worker on monday morning discussing a football game , and says , `` what idiots ... why did n't they do this ? why did n't they do that ? how could they not see what was coming ? '' `` the guns of august '' answers these questions , and when the situations are examined up close and personal , it 's clear that the men running europe made about as reasonable , logical , and cautious decisions as can be made in wartime . we have the luxury of not only hindsight , but of viewing the war as a whole . in the middle of the war , a field officer knows only the battle around him and what information he receives from other officers . spread a rumor around your work or school , and in a single week see how distorted the rumor has become from the original one you spread . now pass a vital piece of information up and down lines of divisions and corps and armies during a full-fledged world war and see how great your communication is . you do n't need to be a military historian to follow this book . there are maps to help the confused reader . if there are wartime lessons to learn from the book , they are these : remain strategically flexible , know your enemy , and plan for contingencies