holy vs . whole mention the word `` sadism '' and the results it produces will vary from an embarrassed victorian blush to righteous indignation that such things should exist at all , not to mention it being a topic for discussion among proper and civilized human beings . yet to thomas moore , a former monk and jungian analyst and writer , it is precisely this topic that needs to be explored mentally , even spiritually , in order to prevent it from erupting into anti-social , or even criminal acts in the flesh . examining the writings of the infamous marquis de sade , moore delves into the healing role of de sade that digs deeper than the surface appearance of de sade as pornographer to find value in what is cursorily dismissed as naught but tasteless perversion . according to moore 's analysis of de sade 's writing , the virgin needs the libertine to complement her chastity , as much as he needs her pristine purity to define who he is . yet , a deeper understanding of moore 's treatise on de sade reveals that wholeness is the object of the soul 's journey , and that experiencing the self as holy -- at the expense of being whole -- unjustly deprives the psyche of its completion . he believes that every human being should be in touch with his sadean side -- at least mentally -- for human potential not explored is what cripples the soul . just as there is no stick that has but one end , human potential and creativity must at least acknowledge , without necessarily favoring , the dark side of the psyche so that it 's full complexity can be known and appreciated . for moore , as well as for de sade , the perverse side of the personna that is forbidden to manifest itself mentally becomes the powerful driving force for enactment in the psycho-socially mal-adjusted person . it is perhaps society 's denial of our own dark eros that enrages and offends most when we see it demonstrated in others , for that denial surely perverts any attempt at self-knowledge , and forces the soul to assume a posture of balance and completeness that is false , lame , and ultimately unhealthy . moore hints that without personal aknowledgment of the darker depths of our psyches , as de sade so blatantly illuminates , we can not hope to soar to our greatest heights , for what we resist persists , and the chains of denial keep us tethered to terra firma instead of flying the limitless skies of our divinity . this book is not a quick read , nor is it for the judgmental or faint of heart . it requires time , and a certain willingness examine our own depths , not favoring the dark , forbidden aspects of our psyche , but rather admitting that a sadean dark eros lies hale and hearty within us all , waiting to be revealed to honest introspection for spiritual growth through courage of heart .