excellent answer to the question of the gospels ' genre i have heard claims that the gospels are `` metaphor '' or that they were never meant to be taken as biographical ( and therefore do n't have much or any historical data ) . this book ably debunks such claims . the intent of this book is not to prove the historicity of gospels , but to prove their genre . by establishing their genre , then we can better understand the intent of the authors . the well reasoned conclusion in burridge 's book is : the gospels fit the ancient genre of biography . in doing so he discusses a lot about genre and analysis ( this section was a bit tedious for me , but it was thorough ) . in all of the discussion and examples we learn how the ancient biographies are much different from modern ones . this is a key point , because i think much of the debates and criticisms of the gospels are done from the perspective of a modern biographical viewpoint . the ancients wrote biographies differently than those that are written today . but this does not make them more or less true . it is a matter of emphasis . today we want to know the details about dates , eye color , and a year by year accounting of events . the ancients were more selective in their biographies , and often focused on character not a chronological `` play by play '' of a person 's life . the ancient biographers did not just write to catalogue facts about a person , they often wrote to demonstrate why or why not we should emulate their subject . moderns too have such motives , and even biases , but they are often less up front about them . in many ways the ancients are superior in this regard , because it makes it easier to distinguish between data and commentary . in the end , burridge gives several examples of biography from the ancient world , and demonstrates that the gospels very clearly match their pattern . though there is variety between each of the biographies and the gospels , they are clearly demonstrated to be part of the same family of literature . this then establishes how the gospel writers understood their own works to be - biographies of jesus