easily the premier book on the subject of pain and suffering this great work by phil yancey was the christian book of the year in the 70 's , and has lasted the test of time . this is easily the best book on the subject of pain and suffering that i have read ; it 's teachings are on the mark and scriptural . yancey nails it when he writes that the suffering in this world is a democracy ; that we are all part of it , we all suffer , and we all can help . he makes some fine points considering all areas of the subject . he clearly balances the sovereignty of god and his will with our blessings as his children and our works . he hits on sowing and reaping , as well as the fact that just like job , sometimes bad things happen to us not as a direct result of anything we did . what i like best is yancey dives right in , going to leper colonies and interviewing with people who have suffered life-time dehabilitating injuries . it 's interesting to see how they 've coped and how they view god , and how their suffering has changed their personal relationship with god . indeed suffering is universal , yet there is no universal answer behind the causes of it or how to deal with it . i 've heard pastors preach that people have died because they smoked cigarrettes , or got a sexually transmitted disease because of permiscuous sex . but the question begs to be asked , what about those who did those things and did n't die ? is it different for a christian as opposed to a non-christian ? what man on this earth walks close enough with god to have the power to decide what sin resulted in what judgment ? if earthquakes are a judgment from god , ... are headaches a judgment from god too ? and it 's certainly an issue that none of us should be pompous about . one reviewer gave this book a one-star rating , saying that `` god gives suffering when believers desecrate his house . '' this is a type of religious crap that this book dispells . is n't it true that none of us are righteous ; even our righteous acts are like filthy rags to the lord ? then are we categorizing sin by saying that homosexuality can destroy a nation , but the hateful attitude of a right-wing pastor can not ? if christians who tithe are to be blessed by god , then why have some 'tithers ' went bankrupt , while some athiests ( and christian false-teachers ) become million-aires ? did 9/11 happen because of the liberal and homosexual communities , as said jerry falwell and pat robertson ? or did it in fact happen because w and the family have gotten in bed financially with saudi arabia and other muslim nations , none of which give a rats a__ about america , and even profited from 9/11 when america spent billions on weapons and defense programs ... .. run by saudis . only a true biblical view of the causes and lessons of suffering can help our walk with god to be more fruitful . you 'll find no faith/health/prosperity quick fixes in this one . you 'll also find nobody on this earth who knows all the answers . this book definitely gives power to that journey with jesus christ , however . just wondering ... . a reviewer of this book has declared a `` chinese victory over the usa '' , and that china is a 'more christian nation ' . woa , dude . they must have better drugs in china too , apparently