wonderful meditations on therese 's wisdom `` i believe in love '' is a wonderful introduction to the wisdom of therese of lisieux . reading it made me more fully appreciate her autobiography `` story of a soul . '' each chapter of the book comprises different topics that she addressed in her writings , and serves well as a meditation . i think the author states that it is his intent to provide the reader with a personal retreat based on the teachings of therese . i read one chapter a night before i went to bed . therese of lisieux 's approach to spirituality is accessible to any one in any walk of life . she describes souls as similar to different types of flowers . some are roses , others lilies , and some like orchids , for example . and all can be equally pleasing to god in their own way , when seeking his role for them . people have different talents and different struggles , but these characteristics do not mean that any type is more valued than the other . the chapters are divided according to topics that address needs of everyone ; regardless of what type of flower they are . the topics are drawn from examples of therese 's life and writings , but the author also includes many biblical quotes and some writings of other christians , such as teresa of avila , that support the advice given . it is fitting that the first chapter describes love , as therese sated that is the church is one body , then she want to be its heart , that loves every one , because god is love . the chapter instructs how to demonstrate love to god and others through all actions of our lives , regardless of our station or ability . the chapter `` fraternal charity '' speaks in greater details about relations with others and how to fulfill our duties towards them the chapter `` unshakeable confidence '' outlines advice for people who experience spiritual dryness . it amazed me to learn that therese of lisieux experiences dryness , and helps console me when i feel similarly , because if some one who lived as holy a life as she did suffered from this problem , than i should not feel disillusioned from the experience . `` humble confidence '' is a chapter that provides sound guidance for acting in faith . it seems that there is a fine line between being confident in religion and proud , the latter of which is not a virtue . `` abandonment to jesus '' and `` the cross '' are helpful chapters for people experiencing difficult times , and anxiety about the future ; whether it is the daily grind that is wearing one down , or a specific setback . and catholic may benefit particularly from the chapter on the `` eucharist , '' as the late pope has named this year the `` year of the eucharist . '' the book is easy to read and personal . the organization of the chapters , are useful for providing support to people during different struggles . i read the book through once , and return to different sections , depending on my needs , but each chapter is a complete meditation in itself and the book can be skipped around . each reading makes me appreciate them more .