interesting start to a new drow trilogy sacrifice of the widow by lisa smedman is the first book in the lady penitent trilogy . for fans of the forgotten realms , this book follows up on the events of the six book series war of the spider queen . so , before i start this review , if you have yet to read the war of the spider queen series , i strongly suggest you do before you read this as events from that series are talked about , and have consequences , in this book . if you choose to read this book , and most likely this trilogy , without reading wotsq then there may be some things that just do n't make sense - so consider yourself warned . the plot of this book is not your traditional plot , in that it is not really one linear plot with a few sub-plots sprinkled in . the sub-plots are very good and hint at much larger ramification that will more than likely transpire in the next two books . there is the sub-plot of what really happened to hallisstra melarn at the end of the sixth wotsq book , and how she became what she is now . there is a sub-plot of the followers of eilstraee fighting followers of tow other entities . there is also a sub-plot of a larger `battle ' between lolth and eilstraee . ms. smedman does a wonderful to weave all these sub-plots together to create not only an engaging story , but a seamless one at that . when the sub-plots shift between one another there is not much transition that throws the pace of the book off at all . the overall plot is very well written and easy to follow . there are several characters in this book . this is both a good thing and a bad thing at the same time . with all the different sub-plots there needed to be many characters to keep everything going . however , with this amount of characters there is less time for them to be developed fully so the reader has a better connection with them . there are a few characters that i would have definitely liked to read more about , and maybe that will be remedied in the next two books . do n't get me wrong , there was some character development in this book , such as that of hallisstra , her brother q'arlynd both had significant development . yet , the majority of the characters had little development . i believe that was just a part that had to suffer due to how much the plots of this book needed to be explained . overall , i enjoyed this book quite a bit . this is not your traditional drow novel in that it 's not strictly about subterfuge and chaos . the pace of this book is very good and ms. smedman 's writing lends itself to be easily read . it 's very easy to read through one hundred pages and wonder where the time went . with some drow books , the authors try to make these huge grand flourishes of prose , yet in this book ms. smedman seems conserved and this creates an easy feel . if you are a fan of the forgotten realms and have read the wotsq series you will undoubtedly enjoy this book for the continuation of that storyline . if you are a fan of fantasy in general and know a little about the forgotten realms i still believe you will enjoy this novel , although some things may not make much sense to you . at any rate , if you are considering reading this , i have no qualms about recommending it . it 's a very nice addition to the forgotten realms universe .