true , honest , heartfelt masterpiece w. somerset maugham 's of human bondage is one of the best novels i have ever read . the language is simple . the narration is subtle . the characters are real and display emotions and feelings everyone can identify with . the power of novel becomes apparent when you are reading it . you choke up every once a while , you smile for hours after you have finished reading certain passages , and you comprehend your own self , your woes and possibilities , better through perspectives that novel provides . philip carey is born with a clubfoot , and as he grows up , orphaned , he struggles with his own deformity . the initial quarter of the novel is about his growing up , and details incidents and relationships that shape our hero . he then develops a fancy of becoming a painter and travels to paris , only to quit few years later to return to london , where he studies to become a doctor . the most engrossing part of novel starts here with the entry of mildred , the waitress . the rest of the novel thrives on the passion of philip , his love that carries him to the edge of self-destruction , and his coming of age . unrequited love has never been potrayed better . philip allows himself to become an instrument in hands of cold-hearted mildred , who repeatedly ruins herself through absurd choices , and ruins him for not withstanding his love and care , he finds himself snubbed , ridiculed , bereft . eventhough his reason tells him otherwise , philip is unable to release himself from his passion for a considerable time . as is said in the novel , `` but when all was said the important thing was to love rather than to be loved ; and he yearned for mildred with his whole soul . '' the novel is lot more than just story of philip and mildred , and there are other unforgettable characters . each person philip encounters and each friend he makes , leaves an indelible impression on him and the reader . be it his idealist friend hayward , who has too much promise too little product , the poet cronshaw who dies in poverty , fenny price whose hard work can not make her draw even reasonably well , his uncle and aunt whose love is both tacit and beautifully potrayed and the writer norah who shows philip of a caring and loving other . the most charming people in the novel are athlneys . athlney brings life and humor into the novel , and i think saves philip from a total destruction . the novel really highlights the virtue that lies in a simple , happy married life and anthlneys win over both philip and readers with their goodness and simplicity . thorpe anthlney with his nine children is a jolly character , and be it his conversations or actions , he wins over our hearts outright . philip finds love in most unexpected quarters and is surprised by how help crops up from strangers . his every experience makes him as richer as the reader becomes in reading about it . the thoughts about the meaning of life , or about love or religion or about virtue or vice , and about each aspect of life that philip encounters are spelt out with a subtlety and mastery . these thoughts find easy resonance with the reader , and make of human bondage an unforgettable affair . the honesty of this piece is stunning . this novel , written without any flourishes and intricate wordplay or mystery , is i think a celebration of the deep insight and understanding of the author . i have read his other works . the razor 's edge , the moon and six pence as well as his short stories are a proof of maugham 's ability to tell simple tales with great mastery . these , on their own , make maugham a great novelist . but it is after reading of human bondage that i realized why most novelists and readers have considered this piece as one the greatest pieces in world literature . maugham 's aim was perhaps of catharisis and he put his own emotions into the characters , and therefore , he 's created a work that is timeless and unforgettable . a must read for everyone who can read .