the way it 's done . what to say about this book ... it shows you wooden boat construction at its very , very best . starting with raw lumber and simple hand tools , larry pardey takes us , step by laborious step , on the odyssey of building a truly world class cruising yacht , his 30 ' taleisin . not only is every step of the hull construction detailed , but we also get `` real world '' time and cost estimates so there are no illusions as to how much time and money each step will take . there are superb `` pro and con '' treatments of aspects that have a variety of solutions . if there are multiple ways to tackle a job , he makes two columns and discusses the pros and cons of each in detail . usually you just get the author 's opinions without any extra information . this book is famous also because of it 's very important final appendix on epoxies in salt water craft , and how epoxy often is weakened to the point of failure by salt water , repeated stress , and heat - 3 things that a sailboat gets plenty of . i am told by many epoxy fans that this chapter `` is now out of date '' , but i do n't remember any amazing new epoxies coming out that make pardey 's findings defunct . george buehler says it best - epoxy works best when it 's backed up by a bolt . `` praise epoxy but pass the nails '' . also note the title `` the hull '' . that 's all you get . when it comes to decks , houses , rigging , etc. , you 're on your own . hopefully pardey will bring out volume 2 on the rest of the boat . he 's a masterful carpenter and his work is glorious and gleaming , fully among the best of yacht-quality work ever done . this is something you need to seriously soak in . this is the best , and not necessarily realistic for the average home boat builder . this book represents a set of skills that you probably do n't have , and may find difficulty developing in your lifetime , unless you are really dedicated . also , there is the time factor . it 's one thing to look at a photo of fastening planking on the frame and say `` i understand that ... i can do that ! '' and it 's quite another to realize how many hundreds of hours are involved in just a few of the aspects of the hull construction . pardey could work on his yacht full time - he did n't need to do other work to pay the bills . he was also in the prime of his health . most americans only have this kind of time if they 're retired , and that often means not as strong as we once were . if we 're young and strong it means we have to work for a living . so , this particular boat might be best aimed at the youngish man who does n't have to work very much for his living . either that or you 'll spend about a decade of weekends on this boat . if you want to get on the water a little quicker than that , consider george buehler 's `` backyard boat building '' , for salty and sea worthy crusising yachts that the average man or woman can build themselves in a year or two , and actually take to the caribbean , or further . i 'm not saying do n't aspire to pardey 's level , but remember that you live in the real world . it 's better to build a simple boat than to not build a fancy one . it 's better to go sailing than it is to spend your free weekends for 2 years screwing down teak decking . but , that consideration aside , there is no better guide to traditional yacht construction than this