another adult hooked on this supposed kids ' series for the terry pratchett fans out there , nothing more need be said . it 's pratchett , you want to read it , the only reason you 've been hesitating is because it 's marked as a kids book ( juvenile , young adult ... ) but this one is n't just for kids . as with any pratchett book , there are layers and layers , and some of them would n't be obvious to kids at all . for example , kids who have only seen the batman movies , and not the original tv show , will miss it entirely when mrs. tachyon is saying `` dinner , dinner , dinner , dinner ... '' and continues a few more times between interruptions , finally ending with `` dinner , dinner , batman ! '' which is where adults ( at least my generation ) will realize she 's not saying dinner , she 's humming the theme song . also , kids the age of our protagonists , 13 or so , may not recognize the `` red shift '' when they get to it ; that 's usually covered a bit later in the science curriculum , such as college physics . the protagonists are johnny , and his friends wobbler ( who wobbles ) , bigmac ( who is large ) , and yo-less , who is apparently the only black in blackbury who does n't say yo . they are joined in this book by kirsty/kasandra ( she changes her name each week ) , who is hyper-intelligent and socially even more inept than the others . each of this team has his own strange store of skills or knowledge . these talents turn out to have entirely different implications when travelling in time than they do in their own time . bigmac 's car-stealing abilities ( which some parents may object to in a kids ' book ) turn out to be impaired when trying to steal a car that does n't have power steering and power brakes . on the other hand , yo-less 's lack of cool is suddenly changed when he puts on period clothing and suddenly looks , as johnny says , as though he plays the saxophone in a band . yo-less does , though get exposed to the more primitive social prejudices of 1941 , as does kasandra . and bigmac finds out that the skinhead symbols and attitudes that he wears only as a social item suddenly have real meaning , and it 's not pleasant . ok , there 's a bit of a moral or two snuck in here , about thinking about what things mean . there is also at least one moral that readers one and all will ignore , just as the characters do , about following advice ( and about giving it ) . johnny has been working on his world war ii project for school since the previous book , `` johnny and the dead . '' one of the funny bits in the book is how , whenever a kid claims he 's doing `` a project , '' he winds up with all sorts of information that is unsuitable for kids , and/or hitherto classified or secret ; the remembered horror of school projects makes all the adults give in so that they do n't have to think about it any more ! other reviewers have described much of the plot , so i wo n't repeat it here . one thing that some readers may wish to note about this plot is that it is n't just time travel , it 's alternate history as well , and for kids this may serve as an introduction to the whole sub-genre of alternate history . meanwhile , some of the high points : * mrs. tachyon 's cat , guilty - and his tastes in food . * the ice that forms on the characters during their last-minute rush for the air-raid siren . * the importance of pickles . the series has no noticeable sexual content , and no real bad language ; the most dangerous things in it for young readers are the ideas , which may make them *gasp* think ! it may also make them lifelong pratchett addicts . in the opinion of an existing pratchett addict , there 's nothing at all wrong with that