benedict 's three points ruth benedict 's the chrysanthemum and the sword is an anthropological study of japanese culture during world war ii . it was her job to `` spell out what the japanese were like . '' ( 3 ) one of the great aspects of this book is that benedict 's main arguments hold true even to this day . although many of her examples may be a bit outdated from our modern perspective , her conclusions drawn from those examples are still valid . however , due to the time that it was written , 1944-6 , benedict was unable to study in japan . instead , she had to rely on articles already written about japan and interviews with japanese immigrants . in doing so , benedict is able to draw three major conclusions about the japanese : japanese society is hierarchically structured , but in such a way that allows class mobility ; that everyone has a debt , or & # 24681 ; ( on ) , they must repay to the world ; their particularistic society allows them to easily adapt to almost any situation . for example , benedict tells us that hierarchy is one of the key aspects of japanese society , so much so that they have `` what is called a `respect language . ' '' ( 47 ) this means that forms of speech are altered to reflect the status of the speaker compared to the listener . before the meiji restoration , the emperor was at the top of the hierarchy , followed by the shogun , daimyo , samurai , farmers , artisans , merchants and finally the outcasts . japan operated in this hierarchical order for hundreds of years and it worked very well . as a result of this , the japanese people learned that as long as they did not do anything outside this order `` they could trust their world . '' ( 70 ) it was a system which `` guaranteed security so long as one followed the rules . '' ( 73 ) although the meiji reform attempted , in part , to do away with these class distinctions , it was not terribly successful : samurai became powerful bureaucrats , merchants still became more and more wealthy , farmers were farmers , and the outcasts were still looked down upon - despite their emancipation . the same can be said even of today 's japan . the elite families such as mitsubishi and mitsui are still very powerful . due to their integral role in japan 's economy , they are able to sway diet members ' opinions their way . another unique aspect of japanese hierarchy , benedict tells us , is that it allows for class mobility . just because one is born a merchant 's son does not mean one has to always be a commoner . as merchants during the pre-meiji era became wealthier , they were able to marry into samurai families . in this way , the `` merchant 's descendants become samurai '' and the samurai family marries into more money . ( 72 ) although this still occurs today between wealthy and prestigious families , there is also another way to move up and gain social prestige . by studying hard and getting into the best schools , one can be sure of a secure future . if one graduates from tokyo university , it would be very difficult to not find a good job . in this manner , even a lowly farmer 's second son can be an important man . one point that should be made clear about the japanese hierarchy is that the american view of hierarchy is not quite correct . americans views it as a very rigid and controlling way of life - indeed it is . however , the authority that a father exerts on his family or a shogun over the nation is not dictatorial . the opinions and well-being of the entire group are taken into consideration before any decisions are made . `` the master of the house saddles himself with great difficulty '' if he acts purely according to his own will . ( 55 ) benedict 's second main observance of the japanese is their sense of & # 24681 ; , or indebtedness , and the need to repay it . the japanese believe , she tells us , that when a child is born , he is immediately indebted to the emperor and will never be able to repay even a one-ten-thousandth of it back . the child is also indebted to his parents . only after becoming one `` does he know how indebted he is to his own parents . '' ( 102 ) tied directly to this idea is virtue . in japan , repaying ones debts is a very important part of life . one must always be careful to remember & # 24681 ; to the emperor and the parents . therefore , it is considered a virtue when one works toward repaying any debts and as a burden to acquire more . this sense of repaying someone continues even now . it is evident in gift giving practices in which an employee gives a boss a new year 's present as a way of paying him back for employment . also , when a guest visits a family he will often bring & # 12362 ; & # 37202 ; ( sake ) or some other small present as repayment for burdening the family . a peculiar side-effect of & # 24681 ; is that people do not often help strangers in need . to do so would be to give that person & # 24681 ; they would likely not be able to repay . benedict 's final insight into the japanese culture is their ability to adapt to almost any situation . the most obvious example of this is their attitude toward the occupation . when the emperor announced the unconditional surrender of japan , the japanese considered it a natural course of events and `` accepted all that such a fact implied . '' ( 305 ) there are numerous stories of the politeness showed to american troops upon arrival in japan . even the fact that there were no resistance forces or sabotage attempts during the occupation is a strong testament to this ability . `` japan 's real strength , '' benedict says , `` lies in her ability to say ... , `that failed , ' '' and take a completely different path . ( 304 ) benedict then says japan `` could make herself indispensable in the commerce of the east , '' which could not be closer to the truth . ( 314 ) japan 's economy boomed after the reconstruction and made it the technological center of the world . of course , anyone could make such a prediction given the fact that japan was no longer allowed to have an army . all the money that had been poured into the military could now be directed elsewhere . overall , i believe the chrysanthemum and the sword accomplishes benedict 's goal of describing the fundamentals of japanese culture and is a great addition to the existing literature on japan . as i have previously stated , some of her examples are indeed old-fashioned ( i.e . the stern mother-in-law and the tale of hachiko ) and may appear irrelevant to the study of modern japan ; however , what she is able to draw from these examples is still applicable . we should consider that even though america today is much different than the america of the `40 's , the same sorts of principles are held today - this can also be said of modern japan