sadist on the high seas joan druett adds her name to the growing list of authors who have , in the last few years , tackled the topic of seafaring misadventure . we have had several excellent entries in this genre , including nathaniel philbrick 's `` in the heart of the sea '' and mike dash 's `` batavia 's graveyard . '' joan druett 's book is not quite on the level of those two books- they are `` richer '' in their narrative drive and complexity- but `` in the wake of madness '' is still a good , solid `` read . '' the author points out that at the time of the mutiny on the whaleship `` sharon , '' people who were not on board the ship assumed that the south sea islanders who killed captain howes norris did so because they were `` cannibals '' and `` heathens . '' the people who had direct knowledge of the events preceding the mutiny did nothing to dispel this notion- to do so would have raised questions concerning their own active or passive complicity in norris 's actions and could have damaged the careers of some highly ambitious ships ' officers . it turns out that captain norris had , over a long period of time , systematically beaten and abused an 18 year old crew member ( and apparent fugitive slave ) named george babcock . a combination of floggings and backbreaking labor finally resulted in the death of babcock . worse still , it appears that norris knew , way before the final denouement , that his actions would result in babcock 's death . it was the result he was looking for . druett speculates on the motivation ( s ) : racism , anger/fear ( norris had had trouble keeping control over his crew on a prior voyage on a different ship ) , frustration ( the `` sharon '' was having very bad luck finding and catching whales ) , etc . of course , harsh discipline was nothing unusual on board ships at the time . but norris seems to have been especially brutal , even by 19th century standards . babcock at one point tried to get help from his fellow crewmembers , as he feared for his life . his mates did try to protect him , before finally yielding to the authority of the captain and his officers . why did the officers support the captain ? we have to remember that a captain was sovereign of his ship . going against his wishes could result in being branded a mutineer ... not exactly good for your career . in any event , it appears that the south sea islanders who killed captain norris were either similarly abused or felt that , given enough time , they would suffer the same fate as babcock . `` in the wake of madness '' works as both an adventure story- as mrs. druett describes the recapture of the `` sharon '' by her crew- and as something broader- as we learn a bit about the day-to-day operation of a whaling ship and of the cultural dynamics that came into play when new england whalers met pacific islanders . stopping off at the islands was a bit like playing `` russian roulette . '' on some islands , the natives were very friendly and would provide women and food for trade goods ( although they did have a propensity for stealing anything made of iron that was n't nailed down ) . on other islands you could run into cannibals or natives who would murder the crew and steal the ship . not infrequently , some crewmembers who felt misused would jump-ship at some friendly port-of-call and `` go native '' or try to `` sign-on '' with another whaling ship with a more easy-going captain . we also learn a little about life back home on martha 's vineyard . the book seems a bit abrupt and frantically paced , with mrs. druett attempting to juggle all this in only 230 pages . still , this is a generally well-written , interesting book , and worth your time