not that good i do n't mean not very good , i mean not as good as people say it is . i really do n't understand why people think zahn is so brilliant . zahn is an excellent storyteller , but honestly , he is n't a very good writer . the trilogy is plagued by gratuitous references back to events in the movies . `` luke reaches for his lightsaber , and recalls when he was hung upside down in a wampa cave on hoth and had to use the force to get his lightsaber from the snow . '' it 's not necessary , and i groaned every time zahn did it . james luceno knows how to make appropriate and timely references . zahn fails . i personally liked the specific technical jargon , but i 'm surprised that most other people did , too . the story , though , what can i say ? it 's a good story . grand admiral thrawn is the most awesome person i know . it was genuinely hard to be happy seeing the empire defeated this time around . i hated c'boath , but then again , you'te supposed to . the noghri are a fascinating creation and their story is followed all the way through . everyone we know from the movies are there with a role , and act appropriately , although you never get the feeling that you 've learned anything more about any existing character . new characters , like mara jade and talon kaarde , are superb additions to the saga . creating characters really is zahn 's strongest point , i feel . the books fall victim of being written before the prequels , and being early eu novels in general but that is no one 's fault , and the `` errors '' are reconciled easily enough . as a trilogy , it is consistent and drives towards a consistent goal throughout . one other thing about the story , and i think this is why so many people adore these books more than i think they deserve , is that it is epic . i have yet to read another star wars book or series that approaches the expanse and import of this trilogy . it really concerns a huge part of the star wars timeline , and as a story matches the significance of the movies themselves , unlike any other books . that does n't make these books the best books , most interesting , or best written , but i think it is that epic feeling that makes this series so popular , despite being unspectacular in several ways .