am israel chai this a compelling true story in which anyone who reads it will be swept up . it is about three men , israel carmi , jochanan pelz and arie pinchuk , who form the jewish brigade , a division of jewish soldiers from israel , in the british army- '' the first official jewish fighting force since the fall of the judea to the roman legions '' . at the time when jews are being victimized and lead like sheep to the slaughter , the jewish brigade , with a yellow star of david emblazoned to their uniform , fighting for the jewish people , and their homeland of israel , shows the world that jews can fight back and win . it also tells the remarkable story of arie pichuk 's sister leah , and her escape from the nazis , surviving as a fugitive in the ukraine , before joining the anti-nazi partisans . after the war , the men witness first hand what the nazis have done to their people , and set off on a course of identifying , finding and killing nazi officers who have participated in the holocaust . their hatred and ferocity threatens to overwhelm them , until a chance encounter with an orphaned jewish girl sets them on a more constructive course-smuggling jewish boys and girls into israel , despite the british blockade which tires to prevent jews from entering the ancient homelnd from which they where forced out by the romans two thousand years before . it is therefore a true narrative about the re-establishment of the state of israel , where jewish children can grow up insafety and live as free men and women , in a free homeland of their own . that is zionism , which has been so maligned by evil forces , who want the jews to fall pray to genocide again . every descent person , jew or gentile , needs to dedicate themselves to ensuring that israel survives as a jewish state in which jews can live freely and safely . anything else will guarantee another holocaust . israel and the jewish people are faced with the same genocidal hate today , that the jews where faced with during world war ii our heroes play a role in defending israel after the fledgling state is attacked by five arab armies , hellbent on genocide . am israel chai . the people of israel live !