compelling coming-of-age tale the title of this novel would lead one to believe that it 's about the life of a student in college , but that 's not exactly the case . sure , part of it takes place at college , but in truth it 's more of a coming-of-age story ; a young man 's attempt to reconcile his working class , suburban upbringing with the wealth and intellectual glamour he discovers at prestigious yale university . it 's a well-told and compelling tale , and , like other perrotta novels , leaves one with something to think about at its end . we meet danny in his junior year as he is finally coming into his own . he 's established himself intellectually , he 's got new and interesting friends , and he 's even a bit of a celebrity in that he 's an integral part of a newly-minted literary magazine . it 's now been more than two years since he came to school and his home-town ties are slowly disintegrating . but some are more difficult to abandon than others . his father , for one , owns a lunch truck , or roach coach . in a mid-life change of careers , he 's decided to become his own man , to run his own business . but it is stressful work , and damaging to his health . danny finds that he must spend all his vacation time helping him . then there is the girl danny met from his old high school . she 's a secretary now , at a run-of-the-mill , small industrial plant . he goes out with her knowing full well that the relationship will never blossom into anything . he is aware he is using her . although danny is doing well , grade-wise , he is painfully aware of all of the shenanigans going on around him , some of which he participates in . a girl has basically moved into his suite with one of his roommates . other roommates smoke dope . another spends his time in fascination with assassins of american presidents . everybody drinks way , way too much . one evening , while cavorting with a female on the campus grounds , he is ridiculed by a student-actor dressed as the `` fool '' from shakespeare 's king lear . is this why our parents spend thousands and thousands of dollars a year ? he thinks . with his background , he is able to view these goings-on through the eyes of the average working-stiff american , and without ever explicitly saying why , finds that he is ashamed . his actions , sometimes reckless , sometimes foolish , seem to indicate a subconscious desire to be punished . this conflict is unresolved by novel 's end . it is unlikely that this novel will ever win a pulitzer prize , or even be nominated for one . there is no huge encompassing theme , there are no substantial truths revealed , there is no scathing indictment of society . none of that . it is , however , a tautly told , bright , compelling narrative with characters one would expect to meet in real life . it is , frankly , the type of thing which present-day aspiring authors should strive for . the average reader is not interested in being dazzled by an author 's research or bombarded with symbolic references to freud , he is interested in being told a good story . if an author does this well enough and often enough , all of those other elements -- the ones which make a novel great -- will fall into place . indeed , they did so in mr. perrotta 's most recent effort , the excellent little children . joe college works because , at the very least , it is a fine example of the art of storytelling .