great source on culinary history , business , and lore `the encyclopedia of food and wine in america ' is a great 1500 page compilation of excellently written articles on virtually every aspect of the history , education , manufacture , marketing , personalities , and writing about food in america . practically the only thing it does not include is recipes or cooking . even sidebars whose label suggests a proper place for a recipe such as the sidebar on shoofly pie gives not one hint about how to make this delicious dessert . given the size of the subject , it is not at all surprising that the editors have left these out , as both recipes and kitchen science can both be considered without nationality , plus the fact that there are thousands of good cookbooks and a score of books on food science available today , so why not focus on things which are not commonly covered in these books . this means that this volume can sit beside the `larousse gastronomique ' with only a very small amount of overlap in material . these two giant books have two entirely different objectives . while both works will have articles on potatoes , larousse will tell you how to cook them , but oxford will tell us were they are grown , their commercial importance , nutritional importance , and their appearance in cartoons . so , unlike larousse , you are much more inclined to simply read the articles in these volumes for your own entertainment as much as for your need to know something . the articles are filled to the brim with interesting trivia about american food . one favorite item in the article about spam is the fact that the word `spam ' became associated with junk e-mail on the strength of a monty python skit which did the same kind of number on spam as the movie `blazing saddles ' did on western films . another discovery was the renaming of sauerkraut to `liberty cabbage ' after world war i . in this way , the book follows the style of the encyclopedia britannica that leans heavily toward long , detailed articles rather than shorter articles with a greater chance of redundancy , especially with a hundred or more independent contributors . it would probably take the average foodie about five minutes of searching through these volumes to find something they miss . my first sense of something being missing was when there were articles about charlie trotter , alice waters , and rick bayless , but no articles on thomas keller , jeremiah tower , or richard olney . i would not feel the absence so acutely if the editors had given us biographies on julia child , james beard , craig claiborne , and m.f.k . fisher and stopped there , as all four of these figures are so obviously at the very top of the heap in their influence on american eating and food writing . on the other hand , tower and olney between them are probably as much an influence on culinary professionals in the united states as alice waters . while olney spent much of his life living in france , he was born in iowa and all of his most influential works , most notably his editorship of the time-life culinary series of books in the 1960s was aimed at american audiences . this series is mentioned twice in the long article on cookbooks with no mention of olney as the editor , a position recommended to the publishers by james beard . regarding keller and trotter , for example , both have received the james beard best chef in the country award and of the books attributed to these two chefs , i much prefer the two from keller than the three from trotter which i have reviewed . i suspect the difference in the eyes of the editors is trotter 's earlier ascendancy , his substantial charitable activities , and his better than average culinary instruction tv shows . these quibbles aside , i am genuinely impressed by the overall quality of the writing in the thousands of articles in this work . the biographical articles all begin with a crisp statement of the importance of the subject to american culinary history . in spite of the very large number of writers , all articles seem to share this same matter of factness , with virtually no sentimentality or sensationalism . one joggling act that must have challanged the editors is how to limit the book to `american ' subjects . and , they seem to have accomplished this with great good judgment . in place of any mention of french or italian or japanese or korean or east indian or chinese subjects , the editors have given us articles on `italian-american ' food and `german-american ' food . i know the german-american culinary world better than any other and i give the author of this article high marks for capturing the big picture and not limiting himself to the very easy subject of the `pennsylvania dutch ' cuisine . although the amish and mennonite communities of pennsylvania , ohio , new york , and the carolinas are at the heart of the german / american food tradition , the greater german influence is much broader , overlapping , for example , the jewish-american culinary world and even the influences from france and italy . by far the best use for this work is as a starting point for serious culinary research or simply noodling around the literature of cookery for fun . in addition to the articles with their excellent bibliographies , there are appendices on general food bibliography , general wine bibliography , list of food periodicals and web sites , major food subject reference libraries , major food museums , food organizations , and food festivals . be warned that in spite of the title , wine gets much less than half the volume of ink spilled in these volumes . i also detected a few minor editing mistakes and omissions . the web site for the cable `food network ' is listed as www.foodtv.com , but this was changed close to two years ago to www.foodnetwork.com . this little mistake is less easy to understand since the article on julia child notes her death which occurred about 6 months ago . still , this book is a great source of entertainment and information for foodies and foodie scholars . expensive , but of high quality as a reference and entertainment .