a great program ! ! i know dr. young and shelley personally . they went to school with my dad and are great people . i have been to their home and retreat center rancho del sol , and it is a great place . i also have been on the ph miracle diet for about 6 months now , and it works ! i have lost over 20 pounds since then and i have cleared up some nasty protein pools in my blood that rob found six months ago when i started the program . at first i was a bit skeptical and hesitant to go on the program , but after time i felt that it was working and it was great . the food - which is cooked by a good friend of my family 's and is also on the ph program - is excellent , and the program is great . and , those jerks that attack rob and shelley personally are nothing but low-life jerks . rob and shelley are wonderful people and great friends of mine . on their retreat to rancho del sol , they went so far out of their way to help me and all of the others on the retreat . and , when you watch rob do a live blood test , it is fascinating . he presents his findings in conferences that are followed by a great alkaline lunch . and the findings are very interesting . he bases most of his work on the work of a. bechamp , an 18th century scientist that was an understudy of louis pasture . the facts are there , and quiet fascinating . he ( rob ) is brilliant , but a bit excentric . but that is understandable considering his passion for his work . over all , this program works . i love the alternative path way to health , but do admit that western methods are needed at times . i just feel that you do n't need to `` dope up '' on px drugs at the first sigh of trouble . so i give this 5 stars not just for the program , but for rob and shelley as my good friends . but ... do this in moderation to other healthy lifestyles . do n't just go 100 percent alkaline all of the sudden . slowly work your way to that wanted ph and be moderate with other health practices . so 5 stars for me . the book presents it all . a great read on the ph program for weight loss ! but do not assume something until you have read the book . and forget what you might think about the program until you read the book and have a sound understanding of rob 's theory . thank you rob and shelley ! !