a primer on iraq i saw dr. polk on c-span a month or two ago . he was addressing a gathering of concerned and apparently well-heeled citizens in the new york museum of art -- as i recall . he had the crowd and the moderator in the palm of his hands . i found him to be a compelling speaker who obviously was very versed in the subject matter of iraq . he seemed to genuinely care about the iraqi people -- and the amercian people . his speech and this book was about correcting our `` present march of folly '' -- to steal from barbara tuchman 's fine book title . this book is a primer on iraq from dr. polk 's point of view . it does offer a `` broad sweep '' of iraqi history in a mere 200+ pages . it 's purpose is obviously as an introductory historical primer for literate , reasonably educated americans so that they can understand the basic historical circumstances leading up to the present conflict . i think he wrote the book to try to change more american minds and effect a change in our present policy . that change seems to be coming about as i hit these keys . both the iraqi public and american public seem to be losing patience with the present intolerable set of affairs in iraq . it 's quite unfortunate that some of the amazon reviewers have so much trouble accepting some very basic facts . they , like the occupant of the white house and the rather motley crew that surrounds him seem to live in their own separate reality . we need , as a people , to give up our collective fairy tales about our country , its leaders , and its forever `` good intentions . '' this is a very approachable book . highly recommended for those who have little background in the history of iraq . another very good book that another reviewer recommended is : `` the future of iraq '' by liam anderson and gareth stansfield . their analysis results in the conclusion that iraq will break into 3 pieces . hopefully , in some sort of federated pattern rather than as warring nations . i remember seymour hirsch saying that the three part outcome was virtually inevitable given the circumstances on the ground in iraq . he based this on his sources in iraq . he made this statement in the spring on c-span . seems quite prescient .