a different sort of heinlein book after reading many of the reviews here , i note that opinion seems divided on whether it 's truly a good heinlein book or not . most still consider it a pretty fair heinlein yarn , and yet all the reviews i read missed one of the main points of the novel -- which is the main reason why it 's so interesting -- whether it 's a great heinlein novel or not . many have already commented on the various themes of the book , most of which will already be familiar to heinlein fans . the one that was new was the bigotry against the main character , an artificial and genetically enhanced human . it seems most readers found this reaction unlikely , although this theme pervades the entire work . one reviewer asserts that it 's even the primary idea of the whole book . another important theme is the revolt against authority which many heinlein readers will certainly know from his other books such as the moon is a harsh mistress , double star , citizen of the galaxy , stranger in a strange land , sixth column , revolt in 2100 , and others . the theme of the competent man also takes center stage in this book , another famous and familiar heinlein theme , although in this book it 's a competent , genetically enhanced female . however , all these interpretations , although true , miss one very important point . in heinlein 's novels , the world is often a very unstable and even dangerous place -- but there is always hope , and optimism that conditions will be better in the future . often the main characters in heinlein 's books are intimately involved in this struggle to overthrow oppressive governments -- and usually succeeding , thereby creating a better life for themselves . so no matter how precarious and dark life in the present might be , heinlein always had hope for the future and seemed confident that humans would throw off the yoke of oppression , establish a better society , and basically good would win out over evil . but in this novel , he appears to have at least partly , perhaps substantially , abandoned that hope in favor of a much darker , more dismal , and depressing future for humanity , at least on earth . better prospects can be found off-planet on several newly colonized worlds . the evidence for this is n't hard to find , but is scattered throughout the book in various narratives , and in conversations between friday and her boss , dr. baldwin . by the way , kettle belly baldwin has not appeared , to my knowledge , in another heinlein book since gulf , published in 1949 . however , all of the other characters are new . so one of the charms of the book is that one gets to meet a lot of new characters , making this book different from almost all of heinlein 's later output , and an old but memorable character is brought back to life in a new context . but getting back to my point , heinlein makes it clear the earth is economically and politically deteriorating , with most of the world now completely balkanized into hundreds of small , petty states , each with its own unpleasant idiosyncrasies . heinlein says most of these small states are faceless ciphers , with a few larger , powerful states remaining . the u.s. is no different , being divided into several smaller sovereign states , along with canada . but these smaller states are often co-belligerants or are at war with each other . it 's said that peace rarely lasts more than a month . in one coup that occurs in the chicago imperium by militant republicans , democrats are rounded up and executed -- including their children down to the age of 14 . another alarming idea is that the large international corporations , such as ibm or the shipstone corp. , are also participants and instigators of these wars , and sometimes wipe out entire cities , such as acapulco . these corporations are hard to fight , since they have no single geographical location , and in the book , the internationals seem to be winning over the real or geographically `` localized '' countries . these super corporations are completely ruthless and immoral and killing for hire and mass murder by them are common . heinlein holds out little hope the situation will ever improve -- he sees elected officials as venal and corrupt parasites feeding at the public trough and mouthing fatuous platitudes for consumption by an impotent and perhaps naive public -- a much darker and more cynical interpretation of politics than that portrayed in starship troopers , the moon is a harsh mistress , or double star , in which , if i remember correctly , one character remarks that politics is the only game a mature man can take any pleasure in . even con artists and grifters heinlein sees as more noble -- at least they 're hardworking independents who are n't on the dole and are trying to earn an `` honest '' living . : - ) government and personal corruption are also ubiquitous . the police are not to be trusted in the book , and disposing of them if possible is considered a good idea -- as long as one can get away with it , of course . for a client who is powerful and wealthy enough , even physicians can be made to arrange for a certain patient to `` die '' on the operating table . in fact , almost no one in any position of authority -- except friday 's boss , baldwin , seems to be trustworthy . in conversations with her boss , dr. baldwin , he tells friday she needs to get off planet because of what 's happening on earth and asks her how one can tell if a society is truly sick -- that being when normal conventions of politeness and manners have deteriorated into rudeness -- which the people now take as a sign of strength . in the book , the good people always seem to be on the run and are persecuted -- while the evil flourish unhindered . an epidemic of cholera or bubonic plague that could kill millions is predicted , possibly because of a conspiracy . but baldwin sees this as a social good since cities are so overpopulated and dysfunctional already that thinning out the population -- however it is achieved -- is a worthwhile goal . so overall , it seems a darker and more pessimistic future than anything heinlein had ever imagined up to this time . but one of heinlein 's strengths is his ability to create believable alternate realities -- which again comes through here -- however dark and depressing it might be . whether it 's one of his greatest books or not , i think it counts as an unusual and worthwhile heinlein book because of that