a brilliant conception of vampires which combines sci-fi and horror . well written , atmospheric , intelligent . highly recommended following a worldwide plague , robert neville may be the only man left alive . his family is dead . all the surviving humans have been transformed into vampires that surround his house very night in an attempt to break in or entice him out , attack him , and drink his blood . holed up in his home , which he has converted into a safe house , robert struggles with his despair and his outsider status , the constant need to seek shelter , food and protection , and the desire to discover the cause and possibly the cure of the plague . a combination of science fiction and horror , i am legend is an atmospheric , stark survivalist text with a truly brilliant central concept : the scientific conception and explanation of a vampire . the book is short and difficult to put down , well paced , both intelligent and frightening , and had a huge literary impact on authors in both the sci-fi and horror genres . i highly recommend it , and i consider it one of the most interesting books that i have ever read . this read through of i am legend was my first time coming back to it since i read it in high school ( now almost four years ago ) . the story has stayed very fresh in my mind over the intervening years -- or , more precisely , the science of matheson 's conception of vampires . coming back to the text , it is now very obvious to me why those aspects would stick with me so strongly . for the most part , this narrative is a method of conveying matheson 's sci-fi concepts -- perhaps like any true sf author , he puts scientific concept ahead of character , and the most important aspect of the characters is not their personality or emotions but rather then impact that the story 's scientific concept has on them . in the case of i am legend , that concept is a scientific and ( mostly ) logical explanation for vampires . and it 's a wonderful , brilliant concept , more than unique and interesting enough for me to remember it in detail over the years . i still feel like the final development to this sci-fi idea and its repercussions happens too quickly and in limited detail , making the end of the book feel a little too fast -- nonetheless , the concept is a great one , and very interesting to read about . the flips side of that situation , however , is that the book lacks characterization and emotion . those aspects are n't entirely absent by any means . robert , the protagonist , has a back story , goes through emotional phases , and is greatly impacted by the apocalyptic survival setting that he finds himself in . he 's realistically faulted and in many ways admirable . nonetheless , these personal characteristics and even his interactions , past and present , exist primarily to move towards , expound on , and explain matheson 's scientific point , his conception of the vampires . in some cases , this is obvious : richard 's memories serve to build his character , but they also serve to lead him , and thus the reader , to a better understanding of the vampires . at a mere 160 pages , matheson could have chosen to give greater emphasis to character -- not so that it overwhelmed his sf ideas , but so that it provided a counterbalance to the emphasis on plot and idea found throughout the rest of the book . the lack of realistic and independently meaningful character makes those sections of the book unmemorable and makes the book as a whole a little bit too fast and too simple as a result . despite these thoughts and critiques , i greatly enjoy this novel and highly recommend it . matheson achieves an incredible atmosphere in i am legend , one of constant paranoia and terror that never grows stale or overblown . his sf concepts are detailed , intelligent , and truly absorbing . the book combines horror and sci-fi in a way that i have never seen anywhere else and find greatly enjoyable to read . i highly recommend the text , and it 's a good one to own -- although short and easily readable , it 's wonderful to come back to and reread . it also makes a great atmospheric yet intelligent horror/halloween text . i have n't read the additional texts that accompany the 300-page version , and so i ca n't speak for those