blix could n't take the candy from a baby -- just too kind . & quot ; disarming iraq & quot ; is hans blix 's thought-provoking and historically-important memoir of the few but critical months leading up to the u.s.-led invasion of iraq , during which he tried to paint a clear picture -- for the un and the world -- of his inspection team 's findings , claiming no need for urgency and lobbying for diplomacy . the polarized atmosphere was palpably tense : while the u.s. , the uk and spain insisted that iraq was not responding to inspections , france , germany and russia asserted with equal force that the inspection program had never been fully explored . parting the raging waters ( for a few weeks , anyway ) was the quintessential diplomat hans blix . as it reads , he was too diplomatic , unwilling to state his results confidently for fear that it might drive un policy . it didn ? t help that he had a few doubts of his own ; that in spite of not finding any & quot ; smoking guns & quot ; in terms of banned weapons , he still sensed that iraq was playing a cat-and-mouse game . either the regime 's odd narcissism allowed it to believe that it did not have to comply with the un , or it was hiding something . either way , blix 's hesitation was enough to set the stage for colin powell 's historic february 5 , 2003 presentation of evidence of wmd ? s in iraq , which was more or less the proverbial point of no return . apparently , what mr. blix was trying to tell us -- before he was drowned out by the noisy din of a fearful and overzealous media -- is now common knowledge about wmd ? s in iraq : blix 's commission failed to find anything not because the iraqis succeeded at hiding the weapons , moving them ahead of inspections , but because the weapons really weren ? t there . iraq had disarmed at the end of the gulf war in 1991 , just as they ? d claimed . the un inspection program had worked -- without knowing it . so how did the war move forward under false pretenses ? according to blix , & quot ; a deficit of critical thinking & quot ; was to blame . he speculates that our congress would never affirm the use of force merely to end a reign of terror ( even though blix himself wishes for a un resolution against brutal dictatorships ) . the bush administration had to justify war in iraq by linking it to terror , and since there was no real link , it had to capitalize on the & quot ; theoretical & quot ; link of iraq 's weapons of mass destruction . this is as far as his speculation goes . where the phrase & quot ; military industrial complex & quot ; would seem most natural and expected -- followed by a salacious tell-all about bush , cheney and nefarious links to saudi oil -- blix cleverly sidesteps the issue of america 's impatient itch for war by feigning ignorance . giving blix the benefit of the doubt , perhaps he prefers to be thought of as naive and not sensational . needless to say , dr. david kelly 's death ( the british scientist who leaked to the bbc that the british government had & quot ; sexed up & quot ; a document alleging iraq 's nuclear capabilities ) was an & quot ; unfortunate suicide & quot ; -- and not the work of a shadow government . ( the entire document , by the way , turned out to be a forgery . ) at least blix observed the & quot ; horse trading & quot ; ( & quot ; intense economic and diplomatic pressures & quot ; ) our government used to obtain votes from other countries -- votes needed to pass the un resolution authorizing the use of force -- as well as he disapproved the bush administration ? s spying on un delegations while on their diplomatic visits to new york . blix had other objections to u.s.-led efforts , but they are all based on facts and evidence , and are in defense of iaea ( a previous inspection organization , also headed by blix ) and unmovic ( the un 's monitoring , verification , and inspection commission ) . interestingly , the largest setback to diplomacy was related to a 167-page & quot ; cluster & quot ; document released by blix in early march of 2003 , which summarized all the inspections for the three preceding months . unfortunately for france and germany , american and british members of unmovic leaked pre-release draft copies of the document . in other words , france and germany had much less time to prepare their official reactions to the cluster document than their british and american counterparts . their positions , in favor of renewed inspections , were not as compelling . while blix ? s passion is definitely enough to carry his memoirs , one can easily see why it was so difficult for americans to take mr. blix seriously : he lacks that forcible personality that commands respect . even so , he is gifted with an even temperament , a good sense of humor , and a deeply-imbued sense of integrity , all important qualities for diplomacy . although he may have been the only individual capable of peaceably bridging the large gap between the un and iraq , in retrospect it may have been asking too much from some of our leaders to match blix ? s diplomatic efforts in their reasonableness and patience