yes , stephen king really is that good hearts in atlantis by stephen king the girl who loved tom gordon by stephen king two reviews in one ? what up with that ? well , i read hearts in atlantis some time ago and , beyond `` rah rah go read this , '' i said it exposed my inadequacies as a reviewer . how stupid was that ? i 'm going to try again . i finished reading my life by bill clinton late one tuesday afternoon , then immediately picked up the man who loved tom gordon . i figured my old friend stephen king could clear my exhausted mind . he immediately pulled me in , and i read it in a single sitting . it 's gripping stuff . incredibly realistic , insightful regarding human nature , and it 'll scare your pants off . the master is most definitely at the top of his game with this book . ditto with atlantis . authors , how do you feel when you spend months ( years ? ) writing a book only to have some reader say he polished it off in a single evening ? actually , i think you oughta feel good . no writer , not even isaac asimov , could/can be sufficiently prolific to be the only one a reader ever needs . i think this is very cool , and i love working with fellow authors to promote this thing we do . okay , back to my book review . king was always great , right ? but there came a point where a certain sameness crept in . it 's hard to define , perhaps , but you know what i mean . i do n't think he was having as much fun as he used to , and after a time , neither were we . then came on writing , which i never run out of breath raving about , and now books like these . he 's scaling back the supernatural , which never bothered me at all , because he 's found even scarier things to write about . the master has raised his game , and it 's a joy to know i 've got a big old pile of unread stephen king novels downstairs . expect more rave reviews . oh , and stephen , if you 're reading this , and you ever get the desire to raise your game yet again , just let me know . i 'll go rent a truck and hit you with it . ( it 's a joke . just like the idea that you subscribe to my rag . i know you 'd rather read dave 's rag . )