helpful ideas for those who struggle to organize the organizer lady , sandra felton , is back with organizing magic : 40 days to a well-ordered home and life . actually , felton explains at the beginning that these are not forty consecutive days because some of the projects require a change of thinking , such as finally feeling that you can invite someone into your home . it 's more accurately described as forty projects than forty days . felton offers ideas as varied as dealing with the paper crunch , saving time , e-mail , organizing closets , efficient movements , developing a visitor-friendly attitude , and upgrading your home . ( no , she does n't mean blowing it up and starting from scratch as my mom has suggested ! ) she gives the reader permission to reject whatever projects do n't work for you while developing a new style of thinking . felton is an engaging writer with a practical , friendly style . she lets readers struggling with clutter not feel guilty . angry yes , guilty no . most chapters include several helpful pointers and boxed quotations to encourage you such as , `` if you ca n't move the mountain , move a few stones . if there is a better solution ... find it , '' by thomas edison . the book ends with a resource bibliography . one of the good things about the book is that she provides options for you to consider and suggests you choose one that you feel comfortable with . for instance , in her chapter on making bold judgment calls , she gives you eleven project choices which range from dropping out of a club , giving up addressing christmas cards by hand , throwing out all mail with a bulk postmark unopened , rotating your visible knickknack collections , using paper plates for quick clean up , and more . some of her suggestions sound familiar to me because i 've read one or two of her books over the years , so those who have read some of her other books may want to look this one over before purchasing it . those who are new to the struggle to organize their lives will find her ideas helpful and her writing engaging . - debbie w. wilson , christian book previews.com