i really , really love cliff janeways ' books . the ultimate in smart mysteries ... . janeway has opened an entire new world to me . as an avid reader who has a book in almost every room in the house including the garage , bathroom , and who reads during ironing , doing homework , or waiting for sugar to boil for making english toffee , i can almost assuredly recognize not only genres but also the various nuances within the genres . just as women in this day and age tend to head towards tough broads who can fend for themselves in a man 's world , janeway brings in a cop whose adoration of written materal causes him to leave his probably more steady job as a policemen , to enter the world of rare books . an occasional job will bring in enough money to support his chosen lifestyle for a while , but more than that , his introduction into the interesting and secretive world of bibliophiles . these books not only whet my appetite for this world , but also introduces me to both real people and real books that helped to shape our world from behind the scenes . janeway 's current flame has an old friend ( who also delved into books ) killed , and she wants him to find out who did it an what t he motive was . in doing so he ends up becoming involved in his lover 's old friends and flames , so of which should be left undisturbed . but janeway never is one to back down from a fight over 'rights and wrongs ' , and he doesnt ' do that in this book either . i get the feeling when i read other reviews that the readers want something less complicated than what janeway provides . if uncomplicated is what the readers want then they should go to other books , becasue there are times in janeway 's books that you just have to go back and understand why certain things are said or done in a true historical background and reality . i wish janeway could write fast than he does , because i thoroughly enjoy these very educated mysteries , but then , if he did write that way janeway would not be as enjoyable as he is . karen l. sadle