fantasic- best book i have ever read ! this is my first stephen king book , well first and a half i guess , i got halfway through dreamcatcher and completely lost interest , so i started this . i started this book 3 months ago , reading it only once or twice a week , but gradually i started to read it more and more . i have spent the last week reading it non-stop , i just finished it about 20 minutes ago . anyways , this is a great book , i found it especially fascinating because it is a story about 3 kids in their late teens ( and of course a killer car ) and me being a teenager , natrually loved this book . from the first sentance to the last , i had full interest . i found i could relate to the characters quite often . it starts off with long time best-friends arnie cunningham and dennis guidler . while driving home from work ( maybe it was on the way to work ) arnie spots a run down garabage '58 plymouth and instantly falls in love . he buys the car from a bitter old man named roland lebay ( little did i kno that lebay plays such a big part in the book ) . throughout the book , arnie spends his time with non-other than christine ( the name of the car ) , until he starts going out with the preetiest girl in school . arnie starts to change at this point . he is no longer the biggest nerd in school , and he is changing both physically and mentally . but pretty soon the car starts to take over his life , and take the lives of others . this book is all about a love triangle ( or in this case quadrilateral ) between arnie , leigh ( arnies girlfriend ) , dennis and christine . i recommend this book 100 % . i was actually a little afraid to read the ending of it , because i hated the end of dreamcathcer ( i watched the movie after reading half of the book ) and i was not to crazy about the last 20 minutes of it ( the movie , i have yet to read the book ) , but this book had the best ending ( in my opinion ) of any book i have ever read . trust me , you will not be disappointed