get out your plow and harness old nellie ... to get a little tilling done before someone steals and eats her . i chose this book for my second read on this subject because it has the highest ratings ( on subject ) on amazon . heinberg has done a thorough job of discussing every aspect of the coming problems to society due to a lack of petroleum - most of which i had never considered . literature about this are from the point of view of either the politician , the economist , or the geologist . he takes the view of the geologist and the future does not look good . i hold a more positive view : that human ingenuity will prevail - but i could easily be wrong . in any case , this is a worthwhile read for anyone . of particular interest is the chapter that deals with alternate energy sources . the next time you read about an alternate energy source in the news , you 'll remember the real pro 's and con 's from an expert . quick synopsis of 41 page alternative fuel chapter from `` party 's over : '' natural gas : can not be shipped from overseas easily like oil - is more difficult to extract economically every year - is being depleted like oil . in view of the precarious status of north american gas supplies , any attempt to shift to ng as an intermediate fuel would waste time and capital in the enlargement of an infrastructure that will soon be obsolete . coal : shortage not so much a problem , however , its eroei ( energy return on energy invested ) and pollution are a problem . as the richer seams are exhausted , it may cease to be a useful energy source within only 2-3 decades . nuclear : electricity from existing nuclear plants is inexpensive , but only if direct costs are considered . when adding in plant construction , safety , reactor decommissioning , and waste storage - nuclear power is very expensive indeed . there are currently 442 reactors operating worldwide . france in the only country in europe still building them . only asia expects to expand significantly . only a few of the highly touted fast breeder reactors have been built , and they have proven to be prohibitively expensive . the us currently processes enough uranium to fuel existing us reactors for the next 40 years . the mining process is wasteful , polluting , and dangerous . when all things are considered , the eroei on nuclear energy is fairly low and there is significant intangible downside . wind : of all renewables ( not depletable ) , wind power usage on a global scale is being developed the fastest . technology has advanced - it no longer kills birds because it uses slower fan speeds and the fans are mounted on a vertical axis . it can operate in more variable wind speeds and the cost is declining rapidly . soon your own equipment could be bought and used on your own property . wind has the best eroei and germany leads the world in its usage . on a large scale , wind power would require vastly new infrastructure , but it is the most practical alternative so far . problem : can not easily be converted to fuel transportation and agricultural needs . solar : technology advancing rapidly , photovoltaic the best so far . research is advancing into diverse methods of collection , including such easy methods of application as solar buckyball collectors incorporated into house paint . tremendous potential , would need new infrastructure . problem : can not easily be converted to fuel transportation and agricultural needs . hydrogen : for now , the process of hydrogen production always uses more energy than the resulting hydrogen will yield . for one thing , hydrogen is not an energy source , but an energy carrier . it 's production depends on continued usage of the dwindling supply of natural gas . there is new technology , however , and reason to be optimistic . as with wind and solar , a whole new infrastructure , requiring time and investments of huge amounts of money and energy technology are necessary . like wind and solar , hydrogen fuel cells should be central features of our plans to phase out petroleum . we should be dramatically increasing these investments . hydroelectric : in many regions of the world - and especially in the us - it is already thoroughly exploited . geothermal power , tides , and waves : limited application in limited regions of the world . biomass : wood burning - pollution and limited resources in a world with 6 billion people - imagine the world being one big easter island . ethanol : costs more energy to produce than it eventually delivers to society . brazil is the poster child , but is burning down rain forests to grow sugar cane . cold-fusion : pseudoscience conservation - efficiency and curtailment : will be crucial in cushioning impacts from the depletion of oil . but it is not a panacea - even when you ignore cheaters ( individuals and countries ) . saudi saying : my grandfather rode a camel . my father rode in a car . i fly a jet airplane . my grandson will ride a camel .