not quite what i was expecting a journey to the center of the earth did not turn out to be quite what i was expecting ; i ca n't say quite why , however , because i 'm not entirely certain what those expectations were . i had n't read the novel previously , but i thought i knew what it was about . as a result , i think i was expecting more drama than verne delivers , or perhaps i simply wanted the book to be more than it is . most likely i was conflating verne 's novel with other texts : movie adaptations of the novel itself , for instance , in which considerably more in the way of actual antagonism -- as opposed to the perils of nature itself -- occurs ; or hollow world stories , in which entire societies thrive on the inside of the earth 's crust beneath the rays of a sun that lies at the planet 's center . a journey to the center of the earth is neither of these things , of course , and if i underwent any disillusionment , it was purely of my own making . understood on its own terms , the novel is , at the very least , interesting , but , truthfully , not much happens . the narrator 's speculations ( as well as his fevered dreams during times of travail ) suggest a much wilder adventure than actually takes place . much of the action involves the trio of explorers stumbling around in caverns and tunnels , and much of the impediment takes the form of hunger , dehydration , or equipment loss . in fact , as best i can judge , they really do n't approach anywhere near the center of the earth , although they do travel quite a distance laterally before resurfacing . the real joy is the interactions between the characters , primarily the trio of protagonists : the young narrator , his scientist uncle , and their silent , idiosyncratic guide . the expedition leader is an archetypal nutty professor , whose words and actions seem nonsensical to those not privy to his thought processes ; his nephew , the narrator , alternates between sheer wonder at his surroundings , and sheer terror at the likelihood of spending the rest of his short life surrounded by them ; hans , the guide , says almost nothing but performs his duties in an exemplary manner , and insists on being paid weekly rather than all at once , even while under the earth ( a square deal , in his eyes ) . their interactions with each other , and with the variety of icelandic folk they encounter on their way to the volcano which is their means of ingress , are wittily and cleverly depicted . these character moments are the high point of the novel ; one wonders how much of their clever interplay originates with verne and how much is an invention of the translator ( who , in this edition , remains sadly anonymous ) . whether the novel 's tone in its english version is added or simply preserved in translation , full marks to whomever this perceptive soul is . though one reflexively considers jules verne a `` science fiction '' writer of a primitive sort , this is really more of an adventure tale and , taken as such , it is generally successful . the adventurers do n't explore a strange new world so much as become more intimately acquainted with the world they already know , but if the reader does n't go in expecting flights of pure fancy , the novel is rather satisfying . postscript : i should point out that this review refers to the signet classic mass market paperback edition of the novel , which features an afterword by michael dirda . knowing amazon , it 's possible that this review will surface under several different versions , and without clarity , we have nothing .