mind opener i first read this book shortly after it was published and it was one that started me on a journey of discovery about natural selection and sexual selection . from being someone who was more focussed on social sciences at last i had discovered a more scientific way of understanding the world that made much more sense . the natural world , human societies and my own family relationships began to connect in a more comprehensible whole . so the best parts of the book for me are those about natural selection and family values rather than the workings of the human mind , though these sections are also a very good read . having read widely since , i know there is far more that needs to be understood . particularly with sexual selection there are a lot of women , like myself , who are aware that female sexuality throughout the animal kingdom is more complex than has been thought with female promiscuity far more prevalent than would be expected with the assumption that a female only needs to mate with one male . also , with human females having concealed ovulation a man could mate with vast numbers of females and never have a single offspring whereas it is the female who needs to be mating a lot when she is ovulating - and not necessarily with only one male . it is only humans that have females producing all their offspring from a single father - in other species , though a male may have exclusive access to a number of females it is never for life and he will be replaced or the female will move to another male . pinker does make clear points about human males owning daughters , sisters and wives and enforcing monogamy on them , which naturally overrides female mate choice . he is not offensive in the way some male writers are when they write as if females are naturally passive and monogamous while males gleefully exploit one female after another . in this book pinker writes better about the sexes than he does in 'the blank slate ' when he writes about rape . though i now know enough to be able to question points in this book , i still think it is an excellent read and would recommend it to anyone and everyone .