succeeds as a book , fails as a social stimulator one only need read the reviews of this book from both professional and amateur critics to see that , if gross 's purpose is to aid the reconciliation between jews and poles , he has utterly failed . unlike books dealing with heroes who surmounted prejudice to create miracles , this book stirs an old cauldron of hatred , freshening the pot . readers without a more complete history of both the jews and the poles are especially at risk . jan karski 's `` story of a secret state '' which was actually written during world war 2 and deals with the situation in a balanced and informed manner would be a good companion book to this . additional reading should include a comprehensive review of polish-jewish relations , beginning with the charters of sanctity responsible for so many jews living in poland in the first place . when jews were being blamed for the plague and slaughtered throughout europe , the poles opened their doors and gave them a homeland , where they thrived for many centuries . the lutheran armies of the swedish invasions brought anti-semitism . later , poland was divided by germany , russia ( with a german queen ) , and austria , an occupation which lasted for more than a century . these countries waged a cultural war on the occupied poles , determined to convert them to their own . the poland of ww2 had only been liberated for a few decades . the equivalent of ronald reagan 's era to today . many of the citizens were of german descent and actually aided the nazis in their fight against other poles , not only jews . and although the sickening atrocities recounted in this book are inexcusable , one must keep in mind that they were committed by people driven to collective madness by decades of oppression , poverty and terror . we 've seen similar episodes in recent years in the balkans and africa and elsewhere . even the israeli human rights organization b'tselem maintains a website decrying violations by hate-infected israelis today . poland has only regained her true national and cultural identity in the last two decades , after two hundred years of occupation . pope john paul 2 was emblematic of that spirit , and poland 's support for israel and attempts to honor her jewish heritage , embraced by her youth of today , are evidence that she has turned a corner and is nurturing the great ideals of her past . the poland that was once a mighty power , yet never imperialistic . the poland that was the promised land for jews in the middle ages