capote : a literary star who fell in tragic descent from the heavens ! truman capote ( 1924-1984 ) was born in new orleans to a wastrel con man father named arch and a southern belle floozie from alabama whose name was lillie mae . lillie mae and arch divorced shortly after truman 's birth in new orleans . the fragile child was raised in a succession of relatives homes . he was happiest in monroeville , alabama where his next door neighbor was nellie harper lee ( lee was the author of `` to kill a mockingbird '' and served as truman 's girl friday on his trips to kansas to cover the clutter murders turned into his best book `` in cold blood . '' capote was effeminate and was a [ ... ] man who had several lovers many of whom used him for money and travel . capote ( he took the name of his stepfather joe capote who ended up in new york prison for his dirty business accounting ! ) spent a sybaratic life of jet setting in the watering holes of europe , asia and the united states . capote was famous for his books , his talk show appearances on television , screenwriting and adoration of his `` swans '' ( such rich dames as kay graham of the washington post ; jackie kenedy and her sister lee and most notably babe paley wife of the president of cbs news. ) . capote 's famous 1966 black and white party of the rich and famous is still a landmark event in new york society annals . capote was only 5'3 '' ; had a babyish voice and squandered his talents with works planned but never written such as his unfinished novel `` answered prayers . '' his reputation rests on `` breafast at tiffany 's '' ; `` in cold blood '' and many excellent short stories . truman capote could be manipulative , was spoiled and lived the life of a famous , spoiled and egotistical man . his death came after years of booze , drugs and sex in seedy places . clarke 's book will sell well in the wake of the famous movie `` capote '' and deserves to be read . capote like f. scott fitgerald before him wasted his talents and died at a relatively young age . gerald clark has written a well researched , gossipy and accurate account of the life of the southern boy who became famous and then was extinguished by his demons . a tragic and cautionary tale .