very good collection of comfort restaurant food `the foster 's market cookbook ' by sara foster , with sarah belk king , i bought in my `buy everything i saw on the food network ' phase , especially after i saw sarah foster demonstrate her killer sticky bun recipe on the food network 's `in martha 's kitchen ' show . this was also in my sticky bun-baking period , before i gave it up as too much work and went back to straight breads . one of the main reasons the book sat unopened on my shelves for so long was the fact that the `killer sticky bun ' recipe was simply not that killer . do not believe anyone when they say they have an easy sticky bun recipe , because it probably means the end result will fall below expectations . around the same time , i did a sticky bun recipe from funny baker wayne harley brachman , and that one did n't come up to snuff anyway . leave it to julia child to come through for me . i did the sticky bun recipe in `baking with julia ' and it was a lot of work , but it in fact surpassed anything you can get from the mall . but getting back to sarah foster 's book , i have come back to it because i harbored s suspicion that there was some really good stuff in the book , and i was not disappointed . part of my attraction is that i am a sucker for any cookbook that covers sandwiches . while i think foster 's sandwich recipes are not as interesting or as complete as those in nancy silverton 's whole book devoted to the subject , they are a great resource if you happen to have no other source of ideas for sandwiches . otherwise , the book covers everything you would expect , and it is especially strong on topics where you would expect expertise such as muffins , biscuits , scones , soups , salads , and egg dishes . on one of my favorite criteria for evaluating cookbooks , the recipe for a classic french omelet , foster comes through like a champ . the only omelet tip she does not follow is to let the eggs come to room temperature before cracking and beating them , but then , this is probably quite impractical for a restaurant kitchen . she is also quite good on another of my favorite criteria , the making of stocks . her recipes are very good for non-foodies and people who care not for haute cuisine , as they do not take very long to produce a very acceptable chicken , vegetable , or beef stock . my only reservations may be that some of her suggestions may lead to waste perfectly good poached chicken on the one hand and include less than edible vegetable cuttings into stocks . there is a reason some people are hyperfussy about stock making . these are but two of the reasons . i fully endorse ms. foster 's recipes for muffins , biscuits , and scones . they are as good or better than recipes i have seen in books by professional bakers and books specializing in these subjects . the hardest aspect of whether it is worth buying this book is how if will complement your current cookbook collection . if you are a cookbook collector , the question is moot . nothing will stop you from getting this notable title . on the other hand , if all you have is `the joy of cooking ' , this would be a welcome supplement , as like fellow martha stewart alumnae , ina garten 's early cookbooks , all the recipes come from a commercial kitchen which depends on their products for good business and the products are relatively easy to make . this also means that the selection of recipes is very good fare for church bazaars and bake sales . while foster is downsizing her recipes to household serving numbers , i am sure that her soups would work well at two to four to eight times her recipe size . just be a little careful on multiplying some of the spicier ingredients . i find all the recipes extremely well written . they are full of important details for amateur chefs and unlike some books , everything is printed in good old fashioned black and white with a little highlight shading here and there for sidebars . and , several dishes are presented in living color photographs , and little real estate is taken up by cutsie pics of foster 's market staff and customers . my only argument with the layout of the book is the chapter title pages where the names of the recipes are written in a kind of multicolored hodgepodge , similar to the maddening typography in jamie oliver 's otherwise excellent cookbooks . fostering this kind of material is what made martha stewart so respectable in what she did on her shows . of this genre of cookbook , this is a very good sample . i would recommend it to anyone who is looking for recipes from this `feel good market ' venue . i think , for example , that it is more value for the money than ina garten 's first cookbook .