splendid narrative of a horrific catastrophe this is a true mccullough masterpiece . written in his usual flowing prose , he recounts the events leading up to possibly the most catastrophic natural disaster to date in american history . on may 31 , 1889 the dam at the south fork fishing and hunting club burst following torrential rains of some 6-8 inches . his vivid description of the aftermath , death and suffering is chilling . he provides recounts of several individual and family experiences that are touching to say the least . the events leading up to the disaster are vividly delineated as well . the south fork fishing and hunting club was established by a small group of super-elite americans ( e.g . carnegie ) . the club was situated up the valley from johnstown , pennsylvania . the dam that held the lake fished by the elite suffered the brunt of much scrutiny in the years preceding the disaster . many argued that it 's poor design and integrity made it vulnerable to giving way in the event of heavy rains . the dam bursting was talked about for years preceding the event . many joked about it , but most thought such a calamitous event to be highly unlikely . following a late spring holiday parade in 1889 , the `` impossible '' occured . the dam gave way , and the lake entered the valley , sweeping locomotives , train tracks , woods , houses , stores along with it . entire small communities were enveloped by the heap of muck and debris on the way to johnstown . the death toll was some 2200 . mccullough paints vivid pictures of the event itself as well as the suffering in the aftermath . the corpses and muck posed and immense public health threat , with a typhoid outbreak following the disaster . the blame was quickly placed on the elite members of the south fork fishing and hunting club for neglecting upkeep on the dam that held their precious little weekend and holiday reserve . it 's a tale of early conspicuous consumption , and disturbing to find that the wealthy members of the club refused to take blame for anything . along the way , mccullough provides historical detail of the industrial revolution in its beginnings . the development steel mills , railroads , refineries , labor conditions , and business dealings of the financially elite are all intertwined in his recount of johnstown . also , details of death counts at the make shift morgues , financial support during the aftermath ( president harrison sent a personal check in the amount of $ 300.00 ) and a list of the names of the dead bring the story to life for the reader . eerie recounts of coroners ' descriptions of corpses in their logs will make your skin crawl . clara barton began organizing the american red cross in 1881 . she had worked on more minor floods in the valley prior to 1889 . her work at johnstown earned her dinner with the president harrison in washington following her five months of pure dedication in johnstown . this is a fantastic book . the katrina disaster sparked my interest and i was not disappointed . if only clara barton were head of the red cross during the katrina aftermath..