neoconservatism is n't conservatism , or the answer `` neoconservatives were the boat people of the mcgovern revolution that was itself the political vehicle of the moral , social , and cultural revolutions of the 1960s . '' a key to understanding neoconservatism is that it is not a sibling or an `` update '' of traditional conservatism . to see it that way will only mislead you . neoconservatism 's roots have sprouted from the left more than the right . the current gop `` may be reaganite in its tax policy , but it is wilsonian in its foreign policy , fdr in its trade policy , and lbj all the way in its spending policies . pragmatism is the order of the day . the republican philosophy might be summarized thus : `` to hell with principle ; what matters is power , and that we have it , and that they do not . '' but when one becomes one 's enemy , who won ? conservatives are nationalists . neoconservatives are internationalists . conservatives are protectionists . neoconservatives are free traders . conservatives see the culture war as essential . neoconservatives see it as a distraction . conservatives believe in defending the land militarily and project our ideals by example . neoconservatives believe in defending it offensively and projecting our ideals by force . the neoconservatives and presidential candidate george w. bush were a match on domestic policy in 2000 ( bush did n't propose a single spending cut in his campaign ) , but it appears that they hijacked his foreign policy , whatever it used to be . ( given the events of his presidency , it 's a startling reminder that this same president could n't name four world leaders when he was quizzed during the 2000 campaign . ) that foreign policy was the defense and advancement of world democracy , something that has never been america 's aim . the only proactive foreign policy we 've ever had was the truman doctrine , a stance we took when the soviet menace showed itself to be aggressive and a real threat to the united states , our allies , and our real interests . the clinton interventions , misguided as they were , were at least brief and limited , nothing that risked expansion into a long-term , regional conflict . the same can not be said of iraq . mr. buchanan gives a chapter-length history of islam and europe , setting the scene for 9/11 . the following war in afghanistan was just and necessary , and quite a diplomatic masterpiece , one that could have been the foundations for better relations with the middle east , which had shown considerable support for our efforts against al qaeda . iran , an al qaeda enemy , voluntarily offered help in afghanistan , but bush soon after named it among the `` axis of evil '' . the neocons had attached their agenda to the unclear war on terror to advance a war on iraq , a war that the neocons had pursued for years , and to be followed with a frightening series of wars throughout the region . the war on terror evolved into a quest for worldwide democracy , buffered with a moral imperative that our diseased culture violates in almost every way , and with the unrealistic belief that the middle east wants democracy , even though they 've never chosen it themselves . mr. buchanan also offers a study of terrorism , and what a touchy thing it is : the weapon of the weak , the reaction to empire , the stuff of martyrdom . with new bases in central asia , the invasion of iraq , and talk of much more war , the neocons were starting to frighten the world . china , now surrounded by u.s. bases , began building and tailoring its military for our encirclement , and leading the all-offense neocons to believe that war with them could be expected , even though their going to war with us would have been suicide . china was n't just preparing for us : it was reacting to us . the neocons were reacting to a world of their own making : filled with nations that would n't war with us if they were democratic . this is utterly divorced from conservatism , historic american foreign policy , and moral , constitutional , and realistic restraint . perhaps it 's for the best in the long term that iraq did n't turn out ; that madness seems to be coming to an end . even the neocons seem to believe that failure is now an option . mr. buchanan then turns to the domestic issues : the disaster of free trade , the continuance of big government , and the imperial judiciary . however , about all you 'll find is that neoconservatives are a problem in the sense that they 're not the solution . cultural issues have given them plenty of chances to fight and solidify their base , but they 've been silent , and often quick to fund whatever nonsense demanded funding to keep the issue from open debate and away from the hands of the democrats . neoconservatives seem to have concluded that big government gets votes , and that social issues are a distraction . but the culture war truly began with the horrid warren court , while congress did n't use its constitutional power to hold it back . the neoconservative gop seems too focused on bad foreign and economic policy to be concerned with the judicial usurpation of power it was n't meant to have . neoconservatism has n't corrected wrongs ; it has created more of them . i was hoping for some answers to an overall question i 've had about neoconservatism : where is all of this going ? how do massive debts get paid when spending is out of control and manufacturing is sent overseas ? where does peace begin after perpetual war ? mr. buchanan does n't offer anything here but the question . perhaps that 's for the neocons themselves . perhaps even they do n't know . `` where the right went wrong '' could be the prequel to `` state of emergency '' in that this book is a good summary of bush 's first term , whereas the latter defines the pressing issue of the second . however , this book includes an afterward , written in early 2005 , summarizing the voters ' response to the electric 2004 election , and defining the battle lines within the gop between traditional conservatives and neoconservatives , the fighting between which began almost as soon as the 2004 returns were in