`` she thinks last of her child . '' nora roberts , writing as j.d . robb , has created a successful series based on a few basic principles . the first , and in my opinion , most important aspect is a fascinating heroine , who presents different layers that the author has been revealing in each installment and will certainly continue to do so . lieutenant eve dallas is a tough cop , who is relentless in her pursue of justice and feels as if the victims were hers to save . on the other hand , she is the wife of the billionaire roarke , and has to deal with parties and charity events in which she is expected to mingle and maintain polite chit-chat with the guests . she has been adjusting slowly to this area of her life and even though she does not like it , she has learned to accept it . the fact that eve was abused by her father when she was a child and had to kill him in order to escape also plays an important role in the development of the story and in almost every case eve faces . her husband also has a complex past , involving an abusing father who killed roarke 's mother and then lied to him about who his real mother was . only recently did the billionaire learned the truth about this and reunited with what was left of his family . besides the two main characters , robb has created a supporting cast that adds appeal to the series and which i consider to be the second factor in its success . peabody is eve 's former aide and current partner who has recently made detective and who usually adds a good part of humor to the narration with her witty comments . she is in love with mcnabb , a policeman working in the electronic detectives division , and they are in the process of moving together to a new apartment . there are other interesting characters : feeney , eve 's trainer and mentor , mavis , eve 's best friend , nadine furst , a reporter for channel 75 who has become a close friend with eve , charles , a licensed companion who is now dating a doctor , and several others . one of the most appealing aspects of the series has to do with the development of the stories of each of these people , and that is why i recommend reading the series in order . the third and final element that helps create a superb series is the cleverly crafted world in which the action takes place : new york in the year 2059 . the setting presents several characteristics that make it very different from our world , like cars that fly , drones that take care of household chores , the ban on firearms , the anticancer vaccine , the legalization of prostitution , the difficulty for getting real coffee , etc . also , the advances in terms of technology require criminals to be more clever and careful when committing their crimes , and we usually end up reading about complex mysteries . in this novel , eve is summoned to the scene of a ghastly murder . the victim was raped and strangled using a red ribbon and before leaving , the killer took out her eyes as a memento . the poor woman had a four-year-old kid and worked as hired help for a wealthy couple , and there is nothing that indicates that someone would have wanted to hurt her . everything is business as normal until celina sanchez shows up wanting to talk to eve and claiming she has information about the murder . celina is a psychic and claims that she saw the killing in a vision . even though eve does not really believe in this stuff , she goes along with it following peabody 's advice and realizing that if it does not help at least it will not hurt either . this is not the first time robb uses supernatural events in the series , but in her previous attempt she went too far making it hardly believable . in the present try the results were much better , and since the case eve is facing is one of the best mysteries in the series so far , the overall quality of the novel benefits even more . as usual , robb creates a good balance between the police procedural and the development of the personal stories of the characters in the series . of course , the romantic scenes are still present through the narration , but without overdoing it . i was very pleased with this installment , and i am looking forward to the next one . a final word of advice , the publisher 's blurb gives out important information regarding events towards the end of the novel . i would have preferred to read the book without knowing these facts . the good thing is that even if you read them , there will be a surprise waiting for you