a must-read . period . i recently read berlinski 's book as well as bawer 's `` while europe slept '' and `` anti-americanism '' by jean francois revel . these are very important books in that they shed light on the mythology of the american left , according to which europe ( western europe , that is ) is the promised land . since they detest america , they need to find some model to emulate . well , on closer inspection europe is not it . today 's europe had been left hopelessly behind . it lives off the corpses of the past , and having been given a sense of security ( by the american foreign policy and its military might ) and illusion of prosperity ( originally spawned by us economic aid and today dependent on us spending power ! ) , they feel superior to the us . anyone who ever debated angry europeans will quickly discover that the superiority is really a reaction to their profound inferiority complexes . disregard the one-star reviews . an m. mcdonald below claims that the book is `` short on facts '' ... this from a guy who claims that germany is the world 's largest exporter ... forgot to mention though that it 's the larger exporter of merchandise . if you add services , the us exports are at $ 1.15 trillion vs. germany 's $ 893b . and , thanks to diversification , the us is less vulnerable to global economic slowdowns . mcdonald 's is wrong . he 's wrong about public education too : europe 's schools are `` vastly superior '' ? ... does he have any idea what goes on in the schools of paris , london and rome ? ? he says china not seen as a threat to eu ? anyone who 's been to italy recently , with interests going deeper than gelato , surely must have seen numerous campaigns against chinese textile imports . my bet ? in 5-6 yrs we will be buying superior quality suits made in china for $ 500 vs. zegna 's $ 1800 outfits . indeed , nothing to worry about . etecetera , etcetera . read this and the other books i mentioned so you can be immune to and be able to eloquently respond to this type of leftist pap