understanding the emotional basis of behavior patricia mcconnell has written a wonderful book filled with engaging stories and much practical advice for dog owners . she incorporates the latest research findings on the workings of the dog 's mind in presenting her own cases from her behavior counseling service . her discussion of counterconditioning covers an extremely valuable concept that is not stressed ( or even utilized ) enough by other behaviorists and trainers . this technique is invaluable and of nearly limitless potential in alleviating many emotional distresses and disorders in dogs . especially pleasing to see is that in her discussion of counterconditioning and other techniques the author diverges from the decades-old approach of addressing `` behavior problems '' ( a term that should be killed off and unceremoniously buried - it 's not the animal 's problem any more than if your husband had a habit of talking too loudly to your liking would you tell your friends that he had a behavior problem ) by focusing on simply eliminating the behavior . this mechanistic behaviorism approach may be effective in eliminating the behavior but frequently does nothing to relieve the dog 's underlying emotional distress that is causing the behavior . for example , if a dog is suffering from loneliness because he is tied up alone in a backyard and barks endlessly for human attention and companionship there are plenty of ways to eliminate the barking . but there is only one correct one : alleviate the emotional pain of loneliness . mcconnell understands this and focuses on this underlying emotional distress when working with the dogs to change unwanted behavior . in light of the advances in neuroscience , comparative psychology , and brain imaging , this places mcconnell on the leading edge of the changes underway in how unwanted behavior in dogs should be addressed . the primary focus in treating behavior `` problems '' is to help the dog rather than the owner . mcconnell gets this . most dog behaviorists and trainers do n't . i strongly recommend this book for all dog owners who want their dogs to get the best emotional care and support in all behavior-related matters .