american pastor write about a non-self-help book about love , marriage , sex , and god situated in africa this is an amazing book i recommend anyone from any culture . it 's not a book that tells you dos and dons , rather a journey of an american pastor who was preaching about marriage , sex , love and god in africa . i am especially impressed towards the end of the book when the good christian african man , maurice , asked weather if he was wrong as a 30 year old virgin to dumb his ex girl-friend because she was not a virgin . good for maurice to stand firm before god against temptation . but there are too many maurice , justifying women who have a different path of life , which might be so wrong , but in needed for forgiveness and acceptance . the books raises a lot of tough and true questions , which sometimes is hard for us to even form . for me , it was tough for me to explain to my boy friend why i think it is problematic for him to not think about marriage , and keep saying that he will seek god first . it 's contradictory . do you not love a child because you want to love god first ? both can come as a practice . practice how to love god and humble ourselves in marriage . to serve one another , the best way to display our love for god . in the book , another character , fatma , a beautiful young women , just like the samaritan woman who met jesus on the way to the well written in the new testament . she and her 6 ex bf/husband , and still living with another man , non of them is her husband . this beautiful woman could not see a way out , do not find a place in god even though she was searching . this story of fatma is also true to many women who became a christian later in her life or was lost on the way as a christian . how women like that may think the best way out is to commit suicide , because her body and soul are wounded , so wounded and dirty , that , abandoning it is the only way out . this is the best book so far i have read about sex , forgiveness , marriage , love and god . it 's not a self help book , but i would recommend to anyone in any age .