`` he could not think of a single major act he 'd managed of his own accord . '' winner of the national book critics circle award in 1985 , this thoughtful character novel focuses on macon leary , a travel writer who hates to travel , a man who has gone through life observing what is happening , but who has never been truly engaged . compulsively tidy , macon has always believed that it is possible to order one 's life so effectively that the untidiness , or chaos , that throws life into confusion can be avoided . and then his beloved 12-year-old son is cold-bloodedly murdered in the senseless robbery of a burger joint while he is away at camp for the first time . it gives away nothing of the plot to say that this event totally undoes macon and his wife , and their polite and predictable marriage goes into a tailspin . when the novel opens , macon and sarah have decided to separate , with sarah getting her own apartment ( where she can be as messy as she wants ) and macon remaining in the house with his son ethan 's undisciplined dog edward . in fact , macon has moved back with his sister and brothers in the family house , to recuperate from his physical wounds -- an accident in which he breaks his leg -- and from his emotional wounds . then into his life comes muriel , a divorcee with an over-protected , allergic , and hypersensitive son . she is a dog trainer , a flake , the only person willing to undertake the task of civilizing the aggressive , sometimes vicious `` pet '' that lives with macon . as macon tries to deal with his life , his loss of sarah ( who is dating ) , his son 's dog ( which attacks anything that moves ) , and his commitment to producing yet another travel book , his life becomes more complicated , and the depth of his relationship with sarah , relative to the shared loss they have faced , becomes an issue which must be revisited if he is ever to engage with life and explore the possibilities of a new life which muriel offers . filled with wonderful descriptions of life , both within macon 's family and in europe , where he travels for research , the novel provides the reader with a full , realistic picture of marriage between people whose relationship has been , in part , the result of their commitment to their son . poignant and emotional , but avoiding melodrama , the novel explores the meaning of life and love , the extent to which a marriage may limit or stimulate the growth of the people involved , and the ways in which a marriage must adapt to the new needs of the participants if it is to endure through time . n mary whipple