if you 've decided to use vsto , an excellent place to start vsto ( pronounced visto ) is a most interesting product when viewed from microsoft 's overall standpoint . it is a very carefully crafted product with the primary purpose of continuing microsoft 's continued dominance of the desktop marketplace , and a part of microsoft 's thrust to move more heavily into the server marketplace . as best i can tell , it works something like this . microsoft recognizes that servers handling up web pages , processing mail , etc . are a huge market , but that linnux owns a big percentage of that market . consequently microsoft came up with the .net strategy . .net is a bunch of subroutines ( if you will ) that are written to provides all kinds of utility to programmers . you write your applications using propriatary programming languages such as c # and j # that use the .net library and consequently have to run on microsoft operating systems . in the office environment , packages such as openoffice have gotten to be pretty good , are basically microsoft compatible so you do n't have a re-training problem , and are free . i do n't know how much success openoffice has had , but it appears to be enough to attract microsoft 's attention . enter vsto . vsto adds customization and productivity to microsoft office applications through 'links ' that tie office to the .net framework . so to use vsto first you must have and load the .net framework , then you must load visual studio.net - in that order -- then install visual studio 2005 tools for office . all of this is clearly explained by mr. bruney in this book , who then goes on to do an excellent job of explaing how to write programs using vsto . as examples he includes some real world applications . most of the book is on excel applications , but word and outlook are included as well . finally he concludes the book with an excellent discussion on pivot tables . conclusion : a well written , understandable and complete book on vsto . if you 're going to be using vsto , this is an excellent place to start