one of the best books on tai chi this book presents the 24 and 48 posture tai chi form . the 24 move form is good for busy people , but the 48 move form is even better because it combines movements from the 3 most popular styles of tai chi , yang , wu , and chen , so the student gets some background in each . at 150 pages long in large paperback format , this book packs a lot of info between the covers . for example , i learned that in addition to the wu style , there is also a w'u style , which i did n't know , although i 've studied both yang and wu style tai chi . the author gives a brief introduction to tai chi in the first chapter , discussing basic concepts and information , then proceeds to some classical taoist philosophy . he also tells some interesting stories about the founder and his sons , who had many adventures and exploits , and various stories and legends have grown up around them . next there is a separate chapter on chi gung , a subject that has become almost a requirement for a tai chi book , i notice . however , most of the book is taken up by athe chapter showing the martial applications and the 48 move form . dozens of applications are shown , and the photos are clear and easy to understand . i found this the most enjoyable part of the book , as there are still postures i do n't know all applications for , such as snake creeps down , and the author presented one on that . there is a chapter on guidelines for tai chi practice that gives detailed instructions for how to use the different parts of the body , from the eyes to the feet in performing the form . i found this useful because sometimes i still forget some of the fine details of how to hold the body when i do the form . finally , there are several appendices which provide a list of the 24 and 48 postures and their translations , a glossary on chinese terms that is more complete than most , and a brief bibliography for further reading . the book is well written and easy to understand even when discussing some of the more abstract and esoteric principles . there are two mini-biographies of each other , two prefaces by two different masters , and a preface by the notable dr. yang jwing ming