baseball 's odd couple john mcgraw and christy mathewson became two of baseball 's most recognizable personalities with the arrival of the 20th century . mcgraw made his name initially as a third baseman with the scrappy baltimore orioles in the 1890 's . mathewson was one of a very few college players , and found himself being tried as a first baseman along with pitching for the giants when mcgraw was brought to new york to lead the giants for the next thirty years . author frank deford manages to weave together these two diverse personalities as each left their imprint on the game during their short lives . mcgraw died at the relatively young age of 60 , although his bouts with the bottle made him appear much older than he was . matty died at the youthful age of 45 due to tuberculosis , probably the result of breathing poisonous gas during a drill among soldiers while in france during world war i . the information provided on the old baltimore orioles can be found in numerous other books , most notably for me , fred lieb 's history on the baltimore orioles as well as the information on mathewson in other books . however , i feel frank deford does a good job in tying together the lives of these two giants of the game who became great friends as well . for all his crustiness , combativeness , and profane mouth , mcgraw , who experienced tragedy as a young boy by seeing his mother and several siblings die of diptheria , had a sentimental side to him . he hung three pictures in his office of his favorite players ( christy mathewson , ross youngs , and mel ott ) . the last sentence is not included in the book . following his playing career mathewson became manager of the cincinnati reds . he suspended one of his players , hal chase , because he believed him to be involved in fixing ball games . when matty returned from france mcgraw offered him a job as a coach on the giants , only to find hal chase now a member of the team . mcgraw had difficulty adjusting to the times as he bemoaned the modern ( at that time ) player , while the stature of his old oriole teammates grew with the advancing years . you can find a lot of the information on these two baseball legends in other individual biographies , but this book will bring these two giants and close friends together in one well done ( if you will ) dual biography