the bfg is scriddliumptiously good ! the bfg is a children 's book written by roald dahl , who wrote such classics as charlie and the chocolate factory , matilda , and james and the giant peach , and illustrated by quentin blake . the book was published in 1982 and immediately became popular amongst children and adults . the book won the federation of children 's book groups award in 1982 ( uk ) , and was named one of the `` best books of the past 20 years '' by the uk 's good book guide in 1997 . the story is about an orphan girl named sophie who , one night when she ca n't sleep , looks out her window to see a creepy looking giant blowing something into the windows where other children sleep . when the giant looks her right in the eye , sophie jumps to her bed , and hides under her blanket only to be snatched by the giant and taken away to his home . it turns out that the scary giant is none other than the bfg , or the big friendly giant , the only giant amongst the frightening human-eating giants who is a good giant , who satisfies his hunger on weird vegetables known as the snozzcumbers and drinks a delicious fizzy drink known as the frobscottle , which has bubbles that travel downwards that makes the drinker break wind instead of burp . the other giants are named the fleshlumpeater , the bonecruncher , the manhugger , the childchewer , the meatdripper , the gizzardgulper , the maidmasher , the bloodbottler , and the butcher boy . when sophie asks the bfg about what he does at night , he reveals his secret of blowing bottled dreams , nice dreams , into the windows of children 's bedrooms , something the other giants have no knowledge of . when he catches a nightmare , he destroys it so that nobody will ever have to experience it . sophie and the bfg become friends , and team up to rid the giant country and the world from the evil giants . so , the bfg mixes a dream showing what the giants do , which in turn becomes the worst nightmare the bfg had ever encountered , and takes it to buckingham palace and blows it into the queen 's bedroom , and leaves sophie on the windowsill , for the dream includes the knowledge that she would be there when the queen wakes up . when the queen awakens after the frightful dream , she believes sophie 's story , speaks to the bfg , and works along with sophie and the bfg to eliminate the child-eating giants . the bfg is a character that the reader will automaticaly like . his unusual features , and nonsensical vocabulary , are both funny and very appealing to children as well as adults . sophie is the young orphan girl who does an outstanding thing ( saving the world from the evil giants ) , a theme that had been used by dahl in other books like matilda . the book was very easy to read , and extremely amusing . dahl 's style and imaginative bfg dialogue tends to make children laugh and attempt to imitate . the story may also give the children a sense of fear or suspense ( the description of the evil giants and what they do ) . of course , the best thing about the bfg is the theme of good versus evil . it also shows that not just because someone might look unusual or scary means that that someone or thing is evil . in other words , you ca n't judge others by what they look like or how they look , but you can judge them only by their actions ; a very useful lesson of life for children . important note : some elements in the book may be offensive to some ethnic readers ( greeks , turks amongst others ) . recommended