exchanges are the foundation of weight and blood sugar managment . there is nothing more basic for weight and blood sugar management than the food exchanges . they are called exchanges because the foods in each group can be exchanged with each other and still supply a similar amount of calories , proteins , carbohydrates , fats and other nutrients . `` the official pocket guide to dieabetic exchanges '' is an excellent resource for describing the nature and benefits of the exchanges . i have been a diabetic since the age of 50 . it is certainly easier to use the exchange system then laboriously counting calories and carbohydrates . they give us a short hand method of coming up with close approximations . one thing that can also be of benefit to diabetics is the glycemic index which measures the impact of various carbohydrates on our blood sugar level . glucose is given a value of 100 . all other foods are ranked according to the percentage rise they cause as compared to glucose . for example , apple juice has a glycemic index of 40 . this means that a serving of apple juice containing 25 grams of carbohydrates would cause a blood sugar rise that is 40 percent of that which would be caused by 25 grams of pure glucose . related to the glycemic index is the glycemic load which applied the glycemic index to serving sizes . to calculate the glycemic load the grams of carbohydrates ( less the fiber ) is multiplied by the glycemic index expressed as a percentage . an exchange of apple juice has 15 grams of carbohydrates . multiplying this by 40 % ( glycemic index of 40 ) yields a glycemic load of 6 . now lets compare this to 15 gm of watermelon . watermelon has a glycemic index of 72 which is higher than table sugar . the glycemic load of watermelon is 11 ( 15 x .72 = 11 ) . thus the impact of watermelon on our blood sugar is almost twice for the same level of carbohydrates . fortunately , a half of watermelon only has six grams of carbohydrates as compared to a half cup of apple juice which has 14 . measured on a volume basis the apple juice actually has a higher glycemic impact . no such luck with a baked potato which has a glycemic index of 85 . a half cup of baked potatoes has 38 grams of carbohydrate . this yields a glycemic load of 32 ( 38 x .95 = 32 ) . determining the glycemic impact of foods does require more effort than just counting exchanges . but by getting involved in the details i have been able to lose nearly 80 pounds and am able to manage my blood sugar levels with diet and exercise . this has certainly been a worthwhile effort for me . i am sure that it would be for others . good eating