surprisingly good ! james patterson 's work over a decade ago stopped consistently being masterpiece after masterpiece and became very hit and miss with very average novels published throughout most of his recent career , with only the odd great read every now and then published , with readers just keep picking up each successive novel hoping the old quality will be back . well i 'm pleased to say , it is back with the angel experiment . i must admit i was very surprised as patterson 's last attempt at the children 's market santakid , well as those of us unfortunate enough to have read it know , pitiful is being nice . with maximum ride the angel experiment , quality is achieved albeit for a much older children 's market than santakid . well actually i do n't even know why the publishers say this is a kids book ( young adult ) as it is even more violent than the two adult novels in this series and although it has been a while since i read when the wind blows and the lake house i did n't really notice any differences in the way they are written . obviously it 's just a marketing thing by the publishers to sell more books in this series . although you could read this as a stand alone novel you really do need to have previously read the two adult novels before this as well to understand and enjoy this story to its full extent , so marketing this and the subsequent novels in this series as a younger age group does n't make much sense but adults will love this book anyway . in maximum ride the angel experiment , max and the five other kids with wings are back for the third instalment in the series . they are happily living in their secluded hide out which jed , the good scientist from the school who unfortunately met his demise in the previous books set up for them . their peaceful existence is smashed however when the youngest girl angel is taken by erasers ( bad creations from the school ) . max takes control and organises a rescue mission where the children all discover they have other powers they haven not tapped into yet . the mission will take them not only to the rural school but to new york and the answers to their past they so have longed for all their lives . some unpleasant surprises are on the way for max and the others that will repulse them beyond any level they 've endured before !