tedious , voluminous , intense having chewed and digested `` around the world in eighty days '' , `` five weeks in a balloon '' and `` journey to the centre of the earth '' , i set out to devour another chef d'oeuvre of verne [ the often overlooked `` true '' father of science fiction ] with much relish . sure , `` 20,000 leagues '' seemed bigger than the others i 'd read , but i thought it would be the classic excitement and drama of verne all the way . well , i was nearly right . professor arronax leaves a `` normal '' life in france for the us , taking his assistant with him , to investigate the matter that has taken all the attention of the `` modern '' or `` known '' world . joined by the egotistic harpooner , ned land , they seek adventure , and they find it . again , i see verne 's classic touch of the dramatic as the threesome find the monster - the nautilus - or rather , as the nautilus finds them . they awaken to an interminable adventure under the sea . the professor is fascinated , or perhaps , intoxicated with the endless wealth of life in the sea and spends hours , days and months observing and recording . the tireless taxonomist takes in all the eye can see and with the help of his assistant , classifies it all . this is where the tedium began for me as the reader . pages upon pages of pure taxonomy . the accounts of the undersea explorations in specially designed suits offers some relief . the enigmatic captain nemo is in charge ; incidents and never accidents . everything about him is shrouded in mystery - pondering on the life of captain nemo offers some useful distraction and provides the fuel to consume more and more pages . however , you can never miss verne 's climactic scenes , where he brings drama and suspense to their peak . the almighty nautilus is trapped inside a huge mass of ice at the south pole , and for the first time , captain nemo shows signs of worry , however subtle . yet , he goes on with a steely determination . things are looking very desperate , but as usual , the day is saved . however , i found myself following every detail , sharing all their fears , their toil , their despair . their ecstasy was mine when the nautilus broke free . i was totally drawn in ... ... the irritable ned land sparks the fire of escape . he 's sick and tired of submarine life as nemo shows no signs of releasing his charges . the adventure ends with the escape of the threesome back to terra firma , or does it ? i guess it continued with captain nemo and his longsuffering crew until his death , burying years of useful knowledge and resources under the sea . or did he live forever ? a highly challenging but rewarding read for the discerning reader or verne fanatic