a must read for everyone interested in terrorism and politics . as i read some of the reviews of people specifically one regarding david ray griffin books compared to this i must wonder about their motives . although i have not read his books i read a few summaries , and concluded on some of the differences between them . david ray griffin seems to put all the blame and cover up on the bush administration ; it also seems to claim that there were explosives throughout the towers causing them to come down and not just the planes . it also claims that the pentagon plane never was a plane . so how do you compare ; peter lance does n't claim that the clinton administration or bush administration knowingly lied , it does however criticize both administrations for not looking into things like they should have . obviously the clinton administration takes a harder hit here because they were in office from 93 - 00 when most of the planning took place . ( yes i know it is hard for many bush haters not to put all the blame on bush but this attack was planned well before jan 1 , 2001 ) . peter lance goes into extreme detail regarding the people involved in the 93 bombing and the people hunting/prosecuting them . there were so many things that were missed on all levels of our government from local police to the fbi to the white house . he does focus on the fbi 's failure more than many other law enforcement because they are the group involved here at home . there are no conspiracy theories , the 93 world trade center attack happened ; we know who did it . the uss cole was attacked , khobar towers , the 2 embassies in africa and 9/11 . to suggest that some or any of these were committed or covered up by our goverment is insane . peter lance details that there are people out there that are making their living trying to kill americans and their allies . he gives us names , faces actual details . a history lesson in new york city law enforcment . there have been numerous books written about many of the same poeple or by the same people that peter lance mentions ; john o'neil , bob baer etc ... read those books many say the same thing . so is everyone on the government payroll covering up the white house empires ? ? ? ? this book is based in facts that occured up to 9/11 ; it gives details and criticizes many people and administrations for not looking past the tips of their noses . it is n't based on conspiracy theories and is a great book . this book should be read by anyone wanting to know how inadequate our domestic law enforcment is at handling the new terrorist threat