connecting dots that do n't appear to be related ... got a great book the other day called the medici effect : what elephants & epidemics can teach us about innovation by frans johansson . it about what happens when you step into that area called the intersection ... contents : part 1 - the intersection : the intersection - your best chance to innovate ; the rise of intersections part 2 - creating the medici effect : break down the barriers between fields ; how to make the barriers fall ; randomly combine concepts ; how to find the combinations ; ignite an explosion of ideas ; how to capture the explosion part 3 - making intersectional ideas happen : execute past your failures ; how to succeed in the face of failure ; break out of your network ; how to leave the network behind ; take risks and overcome fear ; how to adopt a balanced view of risk ; step into the intersection notes ; index ; about the author the medici effect is all about the intersection of ideas , cultures , disciplines , and strategies in new and previously unexplored ways . the term comes from the medici family in florence italy in the 15th century . a convergence of thinkers and doers all converged on florence , which became ground zero for the renaissance period . new concepts thrived in that environment where people were learning and listening to each other , breaking out of their own fields to combine ideas into revolutionary new areas of study . johansson asserts ( and correctly so , in my opinion ) that innovation thrives in these `` intersections '' that are missed by many , but offer the best chance for breaking away from the `` same old thing '' . the book is extremely practical , in that all the chapters are driven by real-life examples of these intersectional thinkers . you 'll see how richard garfield combined the idea of collectables and gaming to come up with the mega-hit card game magic : the gathering . the singer shakira takes musical styles from widely different cultures and combines them into a sound that is all her own ( and very popular to boot ) . eric bonabeau studied the activities of ants searching for food and applied the observations to network routing and scheduling . these and many other examples show how being a generalist ( or at least open to other fields ) can lead to connections not possible for highly specialized thinkers . johansson lays out steps you can take to place yourself in that constant flow of ideas , so that you can start seeing new possibilities in rather mundane unrelated things . i was very impressed with this book , and have already started to look at events and ideas in a different light . i 'd recommend this read for anyone looking to spur their creativity beyond the norm ...