highly recommended ! this is by far the best book on international adoption out there and i 've looked at plenty . actually , this book is for anyone thinking about any form of adoption because it has a great and succinct discussion and comparison of all forms of adoption . although the book goes on to a thorough coverage of international adoption , davenport is clear that all forms of adoption should be considered and there is no one type of adoption that is best for everyone . i love davenport 's thoroughness and her compassion for parents and kids . the book covers everything a prospective parent needs to think about , but davenport is nonjudgmental about many of the choices parent will have to make . with each choice she urges parents to be honest with themselves and to put the interest of the child first . because we are at the beginning stages of considering adoption , i found the first couple of chapters most helpful : are we ready to move on to adoption , what type of adoption is best for us , how to choose a country , and how to choose an agency . i especially loved the chapter on choosing a country and the charts at the back of the book on each of the top 17 ( ? ) placing countries . davenport has a website [ ... ] that keeps these charts up to date . regardless of which type of adoption we choose , i know that i will use the rest of the book as a reference , especially if we decide on international adoption . davenport takes your hand and walks you through absolutely every experience you may have from finding the money , to surviving the homestudy , to preparing the paperwork , to waiting for your child , to traveling to meet your child , to the first days together , to the first year home . i liked her lists of questions to ask agencies , references , your child 's caregiver , etc . i also loved her section on attachment and how to help foster it . she explained it in a way that i understood and left me feeling hopeful , not scared . the complete book of international adoption is a gem and a must for any parent thinking about adoption