exploding myths about red hollywood remember the hollywood blacklist ? the hollywood ten ? i 'll bet you know a lot about these events even if you were n't alive in the 1950s . that 's because tinseltown has a vested interest in keeping the memory of this era alive . it was the era of the red scare , of senator joseph mccarthy waving his infamous list of communist subversives during a speech in west virginia . it was the time of congressional investigations , a time when invoking the fifth amendment might keep you safe from a contempt charge but would make you look guilty as sin in the public eye . for a select few the mccarthy era was a time of great fear , and no one feared this witch-hunt against communism more than hollywood . why ? because , despite the mountains of claims to the contrary that have emerged over the years , the movie industry oozed communists . there were so many reds in hollywood that they should have renamed the town little moscow . yet even today , you wo n't hear about this truth in the media . you will , however , get the skinny on what really went on if you pick up a copy of ronald radosh 's `` red star over hollywood : the film colony 's long romance with the left . '' talk about exploding myths ! radosh 's book , which he co-wrote with his wife allis , cuts through the layers of denial and presents us with an ugly picture of the real hollywood of the 1930s , 1940s , and 1950s . vladimir lenin , the little pipsqueak who brought the nightmare of marxism to the soviet union back in the early part of the twentieth century , had a soft spot for film and theater . he believed that the best way to spread communism around the globe was through movies and plays . this is exactly what the kremlin crowd set out to accomplish in the following decades . they managed to gain converts to their cause -- men who later became movers and shakers like budd schulberg , joseph losey , and maurice rapf -- by allowing them to work closely with the soviet film industry . once these people came back to the united states , they spread their plague to others with the help of party apparatchiks willi munzenberg , v.j . jerome , and john howard lawson . in no time at all , writes radosh , a branch of the communist party flourished in hollywood . so many big names signed on that newcomers to the industry , in an attempt to make contacts and find work , had to become communists or fellow travelers themselves . the hollywood branch of the communist party worked to increase their membership and influence in several ways . one of the most successful methods involved the tried and true `` united frontism '' and `` popular front '' techniques , or the forming of organizations that on the surface embraced popular progressive causes to lure in unsuspecting liberals while maintaining strong communist control behind the scenes . radosh reveals that the concerns many people had about the rise of national socialist germany in the 1930s helped increase membership , although the party 's propensity to change direction , oftentimes overnight according to directives issued from the kremlin , tended to alienate many members . also off putting was the heavy-handed discipline that could fall on an unsuspecting member at any time . albert maltz , for example , discovered the inflexibility of the party when he wrote an article deemed `` revisionist '' by the upper hierarchy . his very public refutation of his article left little doubt about the strong-arm tactics used behind the scenes . despite the ugliness the hollywood reds occasionally displayed , they were somewhat successful in spreading their propaganda through films like `` mission to moscow , '' `` the spanish earth , '' and `` the north star . '' congressional investigations threw some of these dupes in the slammer , and silenced a few more , but many never repudiated their warped views . i enjoyed radosh 's book , the first one of his i 've had the chance to read . the author and his spouse obviously know what they 're talking about and , since ronald radosh himself was a communist for many years , he understands how these groups think and act . `` red star over hollywood '' occasionally suffers from dry prose and a bewildering number of groups and individuals , but the authors always manage to bring the book back up to speed by throwing in some great anecdotes . for instance , the part where we learn about ronald reagan ( at the time a liberal ) and his buddy william holden crashing a communist get together in an attempt to inject some common sense into the proceedings is great fun to read about . reagan got up and started talking only to find himself under verbal attack for some forty minutes . god bless him ! the account of albert maltz 's forced rehabilitation is absolutely chilling , a sobering tale that hints at the violent tendencies inherent in communism . arguably the best part of the book , however , involves the long , strange trip writer dalton trumbo took from the time of his blacklisting to his repudiation of the communist party later in life . so many intriguing stories pop up in the book that the actual creation of the blacklist takes a backseat . i have one recommendation and one warning to those readers about to attempt the book . in the case of the former , if you 're not very familiar with this time period , read a background history of the red scare first . doing so will assist you in learning the context for what happens here and help you learn the basics about a few of the groups and personalities associated with the blacklist . in the case of the latter , the topic is so huge that radosh does n't have the space to cover many of the important reds . there is almost nothing here about lillian hellman or dashiell hammett , for example , and both of those individuals had a lot to do with the influence of communism in film and books . nevertheless , this book is well worth your time . read it and remember it the next time hollywood releases yet another `` we were innocent '' propaganda piece .