kabbalah i learned a great deal from herr doktor gershom scholem ( 1897-1982 ) through his text , & quot ; on the kabbalah and its symbolism & quot ; . dr bernard mcginn , divinity school , university of chicago , wrote in the introduction , & quot ; i believe that all students of mysticism should read scholem , not only for his profound insights into the jewish mystical tradition , but also to deepen their understanding of the dynamics of other mysticisms -- christian , islamic , and even those further afield. & quot ; professor scholem presents an historical perspective with the full knowledge that there are other approaches . & quot ; from an historical point of view & quot ; , he writes , & quot ; the sum of religious phenomena known as mysticism consists in the attempts of mystics to communicate their experiences to others. & quot ; within this context , this text explores broad sweeping topics in each chapter -- topics that deservedly have receieved attention by intelligent scholars for centuries . in the first chapter , & quot ; religious authority and mysticism & quot ; herr doktor scholem presents a thesis fundamental to his research , & quot ; there is no mysticism as such , but only the mysticism of particular religious systems , christian , islamic and jewish mysticism , and so on & quot ; . the mystic working within a religious system is , according to scholem , at the same time both conservative and revolutionary . & quot ; conservative & quot ; because the mystic tries to preserve the sources of traditional authority , and & quot ; revolutionary & quot ; because the mystic also may subsititue his own opinion for that prescribed by authority . in the second chapter , titled , & quot ; the meaning of the torah in jewish mysticism & quot ; , scholem explains the dynamic relationship between the torah and the mystic . scholem presents three fundamental principles on which the kabbaslistic conceptions of the nature of the torah are based : ( 1 ) ywvh ; ( 2 ) torah as oganism ; ( 3 ) infinite meaning of the divine word . as an example of the third , in addition to the the concept of written and oral torahs , the author of the & quot ; zohar & quot ; speculates four levels of meaning : ( 1 ) literal ( 2 ) hermeneutic ( 3 ) allegorical and ( 4 ) mystical . the history of judaism , scholem explains in the third chapter , is a tension between the purity of the reality of god . the dynamic involved is clearly presented in the realization that the price of god 's purity is the loss of her living reality . scholem offers that the book bahir , a cornerstone of 12th century kabbalistic thought , introduces myth into judaism . remarkably , it contends evil as an attribute of god . in a similar vein , the commentary on the sefer yetzirah by judah ben barzilai introduced speculative thinking to jewish theosophy . the fourth chapter , & quot ; tradition and new creation in the ritual of the kabbalists & quot ; presents a solution to a problem faced by each new generation . namely , how are the traditions passed on in a vital and meaningful medium . the mishnal codified jewish religious law and ritual for an agrarian community had survived for centuries . as the agrarian society diminished , the torah became obsolete and the natural rituals became less meaningful , historical rituals . the spanish kabbalists found a new ritual to express the old traditions . scholem writes , & quot ; the rejuvenation of religion repeatedly finds its expression in a return to ancient images and symbols , even when these are 'spiritualized ' and transformed into speculative constructions. & quot ; r. yanassan gershom has already succinctly summarised the fifth chapter which deals with the concept of the golem . i will take the liberty to direct you to his comments . if you are interested in historical issues of the kabbalah , this is essential reading for you