excellent book -- -highly recommended though i have since made a career change , i realized , as i read this book for the umpteenth time a few weeks ago , it was one of the driving forces in my decision to become a counselor . many times i have seen in families , the battered women and children i 've worked with and counseled , the need to love and be loved , to not be lonely . we are told that we will become more lovable as we choose the right clothes , perfume , shampoo , even toothpaste ! the list of products , guaranteeing that we will have would-be lovers banging at our door , that we will never be lonely as long as we buy these products is endless . our media-oriented society measures lovability by : popularity , sex-appeal , the right clothes and products . living by these standards alone makes us lonely , especially if we ca n't live up to them . these standards are only masks , hiding us from not only our inner selves , but those of others as well . marie , the main character in the book `` daughter of earth '' struggles with her loneliness . she wants what we all want - to be loved and not have to prove that we are adequate enough to be loved . `` marie lives out her whole life struggling to act as a whole person - to give and receive love in a relationship of equality - and to work against oppression - despite the image that inhabits her imagination . '' from a very young age , marie learned of the world 's contradictions . she learned how devalued women were , `` that even male animals cost more than female animals and seemed more valuable ; that male fowls cost more than females and were chosen with more care . '' with the birth of her little brother , marie realized how important a son was for there was much celebration as cigars and whiskey were passed around . she also saw how the lives of those in poverty were worthless and that `` the companies '' these people worked for only cared about the profit they were making rather than the lives and safety of their employees . `` coal was dear ... life was cheap . '' as marie watched married women around her , she realized that the `` love expressed in sex enslaves and humiliates '' them . `` it is the toll men exact for giving economic protection to their wives . the weeping of wives - what is more bitter ? '' she sees women become powerless as wives and mothers and she in turn seeks a relationship that is equal in giving and receiving love . she does not want to be like the women in her childhood that have lost the power to make their own choices . in two relationships , marie thinks she has found the equality she 's been looking for . however , in the end it is not even so : `` to her comes the memory of many women who have loved , suffered and remained true to the one man who did not love or remain true to them ; to her comes the memory of a man who betrayed many good women for the sake of the one woman who detested and was cruel to him . she thinks of the great loves that seem to have been great because they were hopeless ; of the night that follows the day ; of love and hate that are separated by less than a hair 's breadth . and she things of annihilation that irrevocably follows creation . but above all , she see that she has had to pay with her life 's love for the experience for which she was least responsible . '' it was through a man named sardarji , that marie learned what it meant to love and be loved . and through her experiences with him she learned that love means to get over who we are because of our culture , our values , or the decisions we make . through sardarji , marie `` touched for the first time a movement of unwavering principle and beauty ... and saw that difference of race , color and creed are as shadows on the face of a stream , each lending a beauty of its own ; that subjection of any kind and in any place is beneath the dignity of man ... '' sardarji taught marie that we ca n't live without loving all humankind ; that we must do as sardarji told marie : `` make conviction the basis of our actions . we must fight for what we believe in rather than fighting for something we know nothing about or for something we are told to fight for . we must think about what it means to fight . we must know what we are fighting for before we able to help and before we can enlist the help of others . '' to break the vicious circle people get caught up in when they try to prove they are adequate to be loved takes knowledge . for as marie says to sardarji , `` knowledge without love is useless . '' in order to love all humankind `` we need to know how others suffer ; and if we have already known , that we should not forget . '' to love without loneliness means that we need to `` experience in our hearts again and again the suffering of the dispossessed . ''