scholarly , thorough , thought provoking hamlet 's mill : an essay investigating the origins of human knowledge and it 's transmission through myth giorgio de santillana & hertha von dechend hamlet 's mill is an amazing piece of macrocosmic literature that should be recognized as a true classic . while some scholars and researchers may attempt to discredit this work as attempting to pull together unrelated mythology from distant times and cultures , this could n't be farther from the truth . nearly all religions are based upon two primary foundations , the first being astrotheology , the second being the use of entheogens ; as above , so below . while the stars in the sky may show differently at different locations , and the plants in a specific vicinity may be different , this does not negate the overall concept of the foundations being the same . santillana & dechend have done a fantastic job at providing evidence that the knowledge of the precession of the equinoxes is far older than can be escaped , downplayed , or ignored . the cultural myths , though slightly varying by time and distance have the same foundations , the same origins because they 're based on the same concept ... the stars and heavens ... know the heavens or die ... essential knowledge for planting , harvesting and storing food as well as for preparing for seasonal changes . this is a most important book of many for understanding the ancient mysteries . other books that will help the reader understand these concepts include john allegro , acharya s. , robert hewitt brown , gordon wasson , john major jenkins , peter lamborn wilson , jonathon ott , terence mckenna , g. schiaparelli , albert hofmann , richard schultes , christian ratsch , joseph campbell , manly p. hall , kersey graves , jordan maxwell , ernest busenbark , gerald massey , etc. , to name a few . one draw back to the book is that the authors skipped over the highly important microcosmic research of r. gordon wasson which was available at the time . a tying together of these two works ( hamlet 's mill and soma ) , as jenkins discovered ( maya cosmogenesis 2012 ) , can not be over looked and is a most rewarding discovery . a solid 5 star work