a valid and persuasive discussion professor eagleton takes no prisoners in this thorough albeit short critique on the theories of postmodernism . focus is placed on postmodernism 's general theories in relation to philosophy and political theory as opposed to postmodernism 's contribution in the arts and architecture . this , in fact , could well be the subject of an entirely new book , however , aesthetics , in this case , is not eagleton 's main concern . it probably should be stressed that a general knowledge of philosophy , postmodern theory and political science would be advantageous before cracking this text , however , someone with only a slight awareness of these subjects could push through the book ( dictionary in hand ) without too much difficulty . by definition , post modernism is hard to define , as it claims no foundational tenets : it is more a method or perspective against established ideas in philosophy . as eagleton writes , `` it is animated by the critical spirit , and rarely brings to bear upon its own propositions . '' ( p.26 ) from a socio-political standpoint , postmodern theories are part of a culture of `` unmaking '' . it can be characterized as a rejection of all `` metanarratives '' or `` grandnarratives '' ; a protest of modernisms inclusion into the established order of the `canon ' , a snubbing of intellectual elites , a blurring between high and low art , where bart simpson sits comfortably with shakespeare . i would characterize it as a cynical `` anti '' position on just about any idea that claims validity or application in society . the key principles of all postmodern theories include : `` ... decreation , disintergration , deconstruction , decentrement , displacement , difference , discontinuity , disappearance , demoralization and delegitimation . '' ( post modern theory , best , kellner , 1991 ) in one respect , eagleton applauds postmodernism 's huge body of work over a short time , and its stubborn demystification of natural institutions and conventions , though , criticises its blatant lack of self-criticism and ability to offer any alternatives after its deconstruction of all other theories . there is a certain feeling of excitement and freedom after reading such postmodern luminaries as derrida , lyotard or kristiva , but after wading through their dense and at times `` cult-like '' prose , one is left with the feeling of utter nihilism , realising that these theories are empty rhetoric , that over three thousand years of human progress was all a lie , a `` grand-narrative '' to keep us chained . for the most part eagleton criticises postmodern theory against the theories of marxism and socialism , and does a remarkable job revealing postmodernism 's na ? ve , almost adolescent view of the present world situation . he concludes that postmodern end-of-history thinking gives us no future other than the present . that there are many possible futures , including fascism : how would postmodern theory shape to such a future ? in my opinion , not too well . this book is a valid discussion and a persuasive argument on the many pitfalls of postmodern theory .