little ashes [ uk import ] no limit for mr. robert pattinson today i had the privilege ; and again a big thanks to the british/german amazon site which delivered the released new dvd into my hands ; to see the last movie from mr. pattinson ; little ashes , which he shot before moving on to the world wide character he made famous in the twilight saga . so far i havent written any reviews for his movies , no need , there are so many-but here i must . mr.pattinson-dali is still in my head , emotions too and i know this movie stays with me forever . already i was highly surprised and thrilled with his three earlier art movies i own on dvd ; the haunted airmen , the bad mother 's handbook & amp ; the musician art in how to be . here i will not mention & amp ; compare harry potter , ( which i have n't seen to be honest here ) and sure not twilight ( which i saw of course ; because i prefer art , independence , i prefer different movies . and all three i mentioned are categorized as the different & amp ; art ones . they were made before twilight ; they were made after harry potter . mr.pattinson carefully picked the roles , the different challenging roles which he can just be so proud off - different and unique roles that will now shine and just confirm the right path he is/was in and now he 's crowned with his worldwide fame and glory . and i am really glad , because he deserves all the glory , which i found in his charisma , with his powerful , emotionaly unique and extraordinary art of playing . as a dali fan too i really looked forward to , going open minded to another of his art movies - which would never see the light on dvd format ( just my opinion here please , this i would definitely say for the haunted airmen and ... handbook as well ) if it were n't for mr. pattinson 's worldwide rising star fame role in twilight ; playing the main character . in this film the role of the world famous artist/ surrealist catalan painter salvador dali , whose full name is salvador domingo felipe jacinto dali i domènech . the story of forbidden love , the love between 2 men , one accepts his own sexuality ( lorca ) and the other , dali does n't ; hiding it inside and denying it , even running away from it , until it 's already too late . dali chose success , money and yes , a wife . but can you deny the one and only true love ? can you ? during the film i too felt like i was sitting on a roller coaster ride of intensity and emotions ; laughing , enjoying the spanish music , idyllic surroundings and lorca poetry reading , ( here i would definitely need the subtitles please , like all the movie had to have too , because of the powerful spanish accent over english language ) and i was crying . yes , emotions - crying ; you feel a part of their lives really affecting you in a way too . here we can see how mr.pattinson really pushed the limits on himself with playing an iconic & amp ; genius dali = & gt ; hysterically and incredibly shy , wrapped with his frequently bizarre out showing behavior complex ; trying to push the contradictions and eccentricities of behavior in a matter of hours and always live a life - with no limit ! hats off to mr. robert pattinson here , for playing so fascinatingly and perfectly such an iconic historically famous complex person , a multi faceted exhibitionist genius to an awkward and annoying salvador dali , takes great skill and lots of courage . and by all means i can see ( we can all see ) it in him with this precisely impressive and extraordinary performance . with this performance all he has to do is , just to be proud of himself ; to be again away from the big budget hollywood industry , which we all know , the movies are made for the money - and we can all see that mr. pattinson is n't part of it . i agree this part is again different , perhaps again his own art savior role , which again and again confirms his own path , mr. robert pattinson 's unique path-his truly emotional & amp ; intelligence passion for making a different career , which by all means again here can truly be seen on the big screen . and i know this is just the beginning . the worldwide different art movie doors are wide open and waiting ... my dream - hoping one day to see johnny depp , jack nicolson and robert pattinson acting together in a movie directed by tim burton ? ? yes ... i know ... just saying it out loud here . i wish to thank mr. pattinson , again for all the movies he made ; because they are the ones to remember . i wish to see mr. robert pattinson in his future projects showing us his awesome , masterpiece and extraordinary performance again & amp ; again = & gt ; with his incredible charisma and different art in many movies to come with - no limit ! what i wish for mr. pattinson is that he takes a long rest from the twilight 'worldwide ' hype around him , knowing at least 1.5 year he 'll be pretty much involved into it - with the twilight saga . i know , i will be watching the rest three of the sequels with much joy too . and after a long deserved break in home england the art doors of movie industry , the big screen will still be here and waiting for something different ... again ... again different ... waiting for the different and extraordinary mr. robert pattinson .