this movie was great ! this movie was great ! it was an excellent rendition of an ancient myth . the animation was somewhat odd , but nothing new from disney . it was definitely better than expected for a disney movie with no singing . the background animation was magical . it was a different level of work for the disney people . the music was largely instrumental but that was perfect for the movie . this was definitely not a film that needed the characters to bust into a song . i hope that this movie does really well because this has to be one of the best animated movies i have ever seen . the story is really cool and it 's obvious that there is a lot of respect here for the source of superheroes , whether it be comic books , serial flicks or saturday morning cartoons . the movie has an undeniably cool retro feel to it and it shows not only in the design of the picture but also in the music , which definitely sounds like something out of a 60 's 007 flick . it is also unusually dark , especially for a pixar flick . i 'm not saying it 's dark where people are getting their heads delivered to someone in a box or family members are sleeping with each other or anything like that but there were moments where i found myself wondering if a little kid might be able to deal with the intensity of what was going on on screen . maybe it was the fact that the heroes were in very real danger most of the time . the bad guys were n't out to catch them as much as they were out to kill them . when you discover who the film 's villain is , you can literally feel his anger coming off the screen . i may be over-exaggerating a bit but then again , it really is to the film 's credit that it deals with human emotions in the way that it does . even though you are watching a film that is populated by cgi characters , the emotions they convey in what they say and do come across as purely believable . whether watching bob parr interact with people at his job or just sitting at his desk was something that rang true to me , just in the feeling of it . everything about this movie has a very concrete feel to it , even while looking like something you 'd see in a comic book . the computer graphics in general were absolutely amazing and the voice acting is excellent across the board , so good in fact , that i really ca n't pick a favorite from the entire cast . i have to say that craig t. nelson and holly hunter were very good as mr . incredible and elastigirl respectively . they had a moment near the end of the film that actually touched me but you can see that for yourselves . samuel l. jackson was hilarious and thankfully , he was n't overused . dash and violet were realized so well that every time they came up on screen , i loved every minute of it . dash , in particular was one of the funniest characters in the movie . jason lee made for a formidable villain as syndrome . i loved the fact that he was your typical antagonist but was also aware of the conventions surrounding such a role , like when he chides himself for 'monologuing ' . he was also one ruthless bastard , i 'll give him that . even the bit part characters were hilarious . in fact , this movie reminds me of why i like finding nemo over monsters , inc . in finding nemo , not only are the main characters great but every other character they run into makes some kind of impression on you . that 's exactly how the incredibles is . every character that appears will make you laugh or intrigue you in some way . even the end credits are awesome ! i have to give the director brad bird a big thumbs up for this one . he pulled it off and hopefully this will attract attention to his other animated film , `` the iron giant '' , which was sadly overlooked when it was released and is also a really great film . all in all , i ca n't recommend this movie enough . i left very satisfied and felt no need to compare this to the rest of pixar 's movies . this one is just as good if not better than any other animated movie released that year and rightfully deserves its place among the best animated movies of all time . ||| this movie was great ! this movie was great ! it was an excellent rendition of an ancient myth . the animation was somewhat odd , but nothing new from disney . it was definitely better than expected for a disney movie with no singing . the background animation was magical . it was a different level of work for the disney people . the music was instrumental largely but that was perfect for the movie . this was definitely not seen a film that the characters needed to bust into a song . i hope that this movie does really well because this has to be one of the best animated movies i have ever . the story is really cool and it 's obvious that there is a lot of respect here for the source of superheroes , whether it be comic books , serial flicks or saturday morning cartoons . the movie has an undeniably cool retro feel to it and it shows not only in the design of the picture but also in the music , which definitely sounds like something out of a 60 's 007 flick . it is also unusually dark , especially for a pixar flick . i 'm not saying it 's dark where people are getting their heads delivered to someone in a box or family members are sleeping with each other or anything like that but there were moments where i found myself wondering if a little kid might be able to deal with the intensity of what was going on on screen . maybe it was the fact that the heroes were in very real danger most of the time . the bad guys were not out to catch them as much as they were out to kill them . when you discover who the film 's villain is , you can literally feel his anger coming off the screen . i may be over-exaggerating a bit but then again , it really is to the film 's credit that it deals with human emotions in the way that it does . even though you are watching a film that is populated by cgi characters , the emotions they convey in what they say and do come across as purely believable . whether watching bob parr interact with people at his job or just sitting at his desk was something that rang true to me , just in the feeling of it . everything about this movie has a very concrete feel to it , even while looking like something you 'd see in a comic book . the computer graphics in general were absolutely amazing and the voice acting is excellent across the board , so good in fact , that i really can not pick a favorite from the entire cast . i have to say that craig t. nelson and holly hunter were very good as mr. incredible and elastigirl respectively . they had a moment near the end of the film that actually touched me but you can see that for yourselves . samuel l. jackson was hilarious , and thankfully , he was not overused . dash and violet were realized as well that every time they came up on screen , i loved every minute of it . dash , in particular as one of the funniest characters in the movie . jason lee made for a formidable villain as syndromes . i loved the fact that he was your typical antagonist but was also aware of the conventions surrounding such a role , like when he chides himself for 'monologuing ' . he was also one ruthless bastard , i 'll give him that . even the bit part characters were hilarious . in fact , this movie reminds me of why i like finding nemo over monsters , inc. in finding nemo , not only are the main characters great but every other character they run into makes some kind of impression on you . that 's exactly how the incredibles is . every character that appears will make you laugh or intrigue you in some way . even the end credits are awesome ! i have to give the director brad bird a big thumbs up for this one . he pulled it off and hopefully this will attract attention to his other animated film , `` the iron giant , '' which was sadly overlooked when it was released and is also a really great film . all in all , i can not recommend this movie enough . i left very satisfied and felt no need to compare this to the rest of pixar 's movies . this one is just as good if not better than any other animated movie released that year and rightfully deserves its place among the best animated movies of all time .