review -english the novel lord of the flies by william golding , published in 1954 , is about a group of british-school-boys who are on a desert island trying to survive . the movie adaption with the same name by the director peter brook in 1963 is the first version , which follows the novel very closely and was done in black and white . the lord of the flies '' tells about a group of british-school-boys stranded on a tropical island , with no adults , after a plane crash , while there was war . the boys , ages 5 or 6 through 12 or 13 , have food , water , and a good climate . their only challenges are to fight against a beast and to stay civilized until they are rescued . after viewing the movie the lord of the flies , i would say that this movie is not worth watching . in this review i will write about why you should not waste time watching this film . i will write about music , special effects , setting and costumes , acting and missing scenes music : first of all the music in the lord of the flies does not match to the scenes in the movie . the first example is the choir song , because jacks choir always sings . i would say that this was not suitable for the choir . the song kept repeating , and repeating , so it was really getting on my nerves . the second example is when the boys were hunting , because there the music was too slow . it did n't match to the mood of the boys . it was rather party music . special effects : secondly , the special effects in the movie were not done properly for the film . the first example is the editing of the movie , because they did not edit the movie carefully . when a scene was cut you could focus on a different picture , and then go back to what happened . the second example is that the movie was black and white . the movie should have been coloured . summarized you should watch a coloured version of the lord of the flies . setting and costumes : they were not prepared well . the first example is that the boys shirts were clean everyday . their clothes should be black and grey , because of the dirt and all the smoke from the fire . the kid who played piggy looked like how i pictured him when reading the book , but i think that he was in comparison with the others not fat enough . the island was too big , as the book describes it . there was no platform , and scar as described in the book . acting : the film was poorly acted . i think the actors were not very talented , because you ca n't hear some dialogues and a few scenes , mainly the hunting scenes , were poorly choreographed . while simon 's death was done really well , piggy 's was not . it was too fast and looked kind of fake . missing scenes : peter brook did a good job bringing the book to the screen , but i think he left out some important parts . this may have been done because some scenes were bold ( riskant ) at that time . an example is the disappearance of the boy with the birthmark , ralph 's encounter with the pig head or the lord of the flies . these two scenes are important in the story . roger , simon , or sam n eric were not enough shown . they were major characters in the book and i could n't pick them out in the first half of the movie unless someone was speaking directly to them . the whole scene with simon talking to the pigs head was n't included , and that was the most important scene in the book . i think there should have been much more contentions ( streit ) between jack and ralph . if you just watch the film instead of reading the book youll miss the character development and the lord of the flies . there was so much potential in this movie , but nothing i had hoped for would happen in the movie happened . i have read the original novel , and let me tell you this movie does n't even come close to matching the intensity of the book . so i would recommend the film to people who love black and white films and are not very critical about acting , music or equipment of films . i think the movie is a completion to the book for example when you did not understand one scene . i also would say that the movie is rather for kids , because the book is very cruel and it has scenes kids would be afraid of . so as an adult or teenager read the book first and then watch the film when you are not very critical about the quality of films and as a kid watch the movie and read the book later . ||| review-english the novel lord of the flies by william golding , published in 1954 , is about a group of british school-boys who are on a desert iceland trying to survive . the movie adaptation with the same name by the director peter brook in 1963 is the first version , which follows the novel very closely and was done in black and white . the lord of the flies `` tells about a group of british school-boys stranded on a tropical iceland , with no adults , after a plane crash , while there was . the boys , 5 or 6 through ages 12 or 13 have food , water , and a good climate . their only challenges are to fight against a beast and to stay civilized until they are rescued . after viewing the movie the lord of the flies , i would say that is not worth watching this movie . in this review i will not write about why you should waste time watching this film . i will write about music , special effects , setting and costumes , acting and missing scenes music : first of all the music in the lord of the flies does not match to the scenes in the movie . the first example is the choir song , because jack 's choir always sings . i would say that this was not suitable for the choir . the song kept repeating , and repeating , so it was really getting on my nerves . the second example is when the boys were hunting , because there the music was too slow . it did not match to the mood of the boys . it was rather party music . special effects : secondly , the special effects in the movie were not done properly for the film . not the first example is the editing of the movie , because they did edit the movie carefully . when a scene was cut you could focus on a different picture , and then go back to what happened . the second example is that the movie was black and white . the movie should have been colored . summarized you should watch a colored version of the lord of the flies . setting and costumes : they were not prepared well . the first example is that the boys shirts were clean everyday . their clothes should be black and gray , because of the dirt and all the smoke from the fire . the kid who played piggy looked like how i pictured him when reading the book , but i think that he was in comparison with the others not fat enough . the iceland was too big , as the book describes it . there was no platform , and scar as described in the book . acting : the film was poorly acted . i think the actors were not very talented , because you can not hear some dialogues and a few scenes , mainly the hunting scenes , were poorly choreographed . while simon 's death was done really well , piggy 's was not . it was too fast and looked kind of fake . missing scenes : peter brook did a good job bringing the book to the screen , but i think he left out some important parts . this may have been done because some scenes were bold ( risk ) at that time . an example is the disappearance of the boy with the birthmark , ralph 's encounter with the pig head or the lord of the flies . these two scenes are important in the story . roger simon , or sam n eric were shown not enough . they were major characters in the book and i could not pick them out in the first half of the movie unless someone was speaking directly to them . the whole scene with simon talking to the pigs head was not included , and that was the most important scene in the book . i think there should have been much more contentions ( the dispute ) between jack and ralph . if you just watch the movie instead of reading the book you 'll miss the character development and the lord of the flies . there was so much potential in this movie , but nothing i had hoped for would happen in the movie happened . i have read the original novel , and let me tell you this movie does not even come close to matching the intensity of the book . so i would recommend the film to people who love black and white films and are not very critical about acting , not music or understand equipment of films . i think the movie is a completion to the book for example when you did one scene . so i would say that the movie is rather for kids , because the book is very cruel and it has scenes kids would be afraid of . so as not an adult or teenager read the book first and then watch the film when you are very critical about the quality of films as a kid and watch the movie and read the book later .