one night stand mit one night stand hat wwe eine weitere zufriedenstellende großveranstaltung geschaffen . dei card war atraktiv gestaltet mit : falls count anywhere jeff hardy vs umaga 3 von 5 sternen guter opener # 1 contender match for the ecw championship big show vs cm punk vs tommy dreamer vs john morrison vs chavo guerrero 2 von 5 sternen etwas zu kurz und ende zu absehbar first blood match john cena vs jbl 3,5 sterne guter fight aber das schlechte ende kostet das match die wertung i quit match beth phoenix vs melina 1 von 5 sternen keine linie im match und ich hab bis heute kein i quit gehört strecher match batista vs shawn micheals 4 von 5 sternen gute linie spannender verlauf und auch als fehde überzeugend aufgebaut last man standing match for the wwe championship triple h vs randy orton 3,5 von 5 sterne gutes match leider verletzte sich randy orton wärenddessen was dem match auch eine bessere wertung nimmt table`s ladder`s chair`s match for the worldheavyweigth championship edge vs the undertaker 4,75 von 5 sternen toller kampf tolles ende fast 5 sterne wert insgesamt eine tolle großveranstaltung die sich lohnt zu sehen ! es hätten aber auch weniger giminik matches getan und es fällt auf das es 2 matches nach 2007 wieder beim ons gab . lohnt sich zu kaufen ||| one night stand with one night stand wwe has created another satisfying big event . dei card was designed with attractive : falls count anywhere jeff hardy vs. umaga 3 stars out of 5 good opener # 1 contender match for the ecw championship big show vs. cm punk vs. tommy dreamer vs. john morrison vs. chavo guerrero 2 out of 5 stars slightly too short and end in sight first blood match john cena vs. jbl 3,5 stars good fight but the bad end of the match will cost the score i quit match beth phoenix vs. melina 1 out of 5 stars no line in the match and i 've still not heard strecher i quit match batista vs. shawn micheals 4 out of 5 stars good line of exciting course and also as a feud built up a convincing last man standing match for the wwe championship triple h vs. randy orton 3.5 out of 5 stars good match , unfortunately , was injured randy orton wärenddessen which takes the match and a better rating table `s ladder` s `s chair for the worldheavyweigth championship match edge vs. the undertaker 4.75 of 5 stars great great fight end almost 5 stars overall , a worthy great big event which is worth seeing , it would have done but also less giminik match and it falls to about 2 matches after 2007 were back at the ons . worth it to buy