one  night  only  with  jake 's  release  from  joliet  the  two  brothers ,  jake  ( john  belushi )  and  elwood  ( dan  aykroyd )  blues ,  are  back  together  again .  after  visiting  “ the  penguin ”  ( kathleen  freeman ),   a  nun  at  their  old  orphanage ,  they  have  a  quest  to  save  their  old  orphanage  which  requires  the  reformation  of  the  blues  band .  we  follow  them  on  their  quest ,  kibitzing  when  we  can  as  they  come  across  many  of  the  musical  greats  from  the  past  such  as  ray  charles ,  aretha  franklin ,  cab  calloway ,  james  brown  etc .  
  toss  in  some  chicago  neo -nazis  ( henry  gibson ),   twiggy ,  carry  fisher ,  and  the  entire  cook  county  police  force  in  an  intense  chase  scene .  
  will  the  band  get  together ?  
  will  the  escape  the  revenge  of  carry  fisher ?  
  will  they  be  caught  by  the  real  “ good  old  boys ?”  
  will  they  be  caught  by  the  cook  county  police  force ?  
  will  they  be  able  to  save  the  orphanage ?  
  will  we  have  fun  and  lots  of  good  music ?  ( yes ) ||| one night only with jake 's release from joliet the two brothers , jake ( john belushi ) and elwood ( dan aykroyd ) blues , are back together again . after visiting `` the penguin '' ( kathleen freeman ) , a nun at their old orphanage , they have a quest to save their old orphanage which requires the reformation of the blues band . we follow them on their quest , kibitzing when we can as they come across many of the musical greats from the past such as ray charles , aretha franklin , cab calloway , james brown etc . toss in some chicago neo-nazis ( henry gibson ) , twiggy , carry fisher , and the entire cook county police force in an intense chase scene . will the band get together ? will the escape the revenge of carry fisher ? will they be caught by the real `` good old boys ? '' will they be caught by the cook county police force ? will they be able to save the orphanage ? will we have fun and lots of good music ? ( yes )