more fun than a barrel of crack babies made and first released ( as tell your children ) in 1936 , when prohibition still protected innocent youth from the purgatory of alcohol abuse , reefer madness began life as a morality tale to protect innocent youth from marijuana . tell your children was a low-budget production , made by g & h productions for a small church group . the director had gained almost all of his experience in silent film . so , the facial expressions and gestures of the actors are exaggerated as they were in silent films . this `` problem '' became an asset later . the movie begins with a star wars like scroll that touts marijuana as the real public enemy number one ! the film hammers on marijuana so hard that at one point a doctor is relieved to find that his patient has only had heroin and not marijuana . clearly , story , written by laurence meade , and the screenplay , written by arthur hoerl , could have used some validation by a real doctor with real drug treatment experience . it was dwaine esper , a pioneer intellectual property pirate who bought the rights to the film , spliced in some salacious sex scenes and marketed the resulting reefer madness as an exploitation film . as a sensation exploitation of the marijuana menace , the film made some money for esper . then it fell into nameless disuse and eventually passed into the public domain . in the early 1970s , keith stroup , a founder of the national organization for reform of marijuana laws ( norml ) , paid less than $ 300 for the film , cleaned it up , and began showing it at rallies . the pomposity and overacting were a big hit with the ( frequently stoned ) marijuana advocates . since then it has achieved cult status . it is up there with the rocky horror picture show . all this would make reefer madness a genuinely funny viewing experience were it not for crack , and heroin . i felt bad watching this film , not because it was not uproarious camp , but because i live in the center of a fine , historical city where mothers try to sell you their crack babies , and heroin addicts mumble incoherently trying to panhandle in front of the halfway houses where they have been dumped . if amazon , or those who reap the profit on the sales of this dvd , would donate to quality rehab programs , i would feel less like taking a shower after watching this