this sequel is not so bad . it is only unnecessary . what it this ? disney 's original animated film `the jungle book ' was made in 1967 , and after almost 40 years they released a sequel `the jungle book 2 . ' what is the point of doing this anyway ? to be fair , the sequel is not a horrible film . it has more colors ( more light colors in the jungle ) and comes with the original 's exhilarating `bare necessities . ' who can dislike this song ? and the introductory part using stick puppets is cleverly done , letting us into the world of the wild child mowgli and his friends . but after that , about 10 minutes or so , the film suddenly starts to look not-so-ambitious attempt to re-tell the story of the original , which should have been ended 40 years ago . in this sequel mowgli , who is fed up with the rules of the village , goes back to the jungle where his friend big bear baloo is living and dancing to that charming song alone . now baloo is happy to meet the boy again for he is lonely and needs a partner to do the musical number . but we are not so happy . that is partly because their reunion virtually ignores the original film 's conclusion , and partly because we know the same story has just begun again . the difference between the 1967 version and this one is that shanti also steps into the jungle with a little boy ranjan , but this slight difference means little to us because both of them are quite unmemorable . after all , the problem is not the fact that the story of `the jungle book 2 ' in fact retreads that of the original because few people would still remember the details of the film made 40 years ago . the real drawback is that in `jb2 ' nothing interesting happens except the last 10 minutes where the bad tiger tries to kill mowgli . the film provides musical scenes ( which are decent themselves ) , but they only stretch the thin story . even though i love the song bare necessities , i do n't want to listen to it three times in a short film that only runs 72 minutes . to me ( i am living in japan ) the most shocking thing about the film is that like the so-so film `return to neverland ' `the jungle book 2 ' was originally made for video , and then was chosen for theatrical release in usa and uk . that they can do such a thing is as unaccountable as the company 's choice of the material for the sequel