too much after watching this film i decided to be scientific and use the process of elimination to determine how someone might have been able to appreciate it since i had n't . aesthetics is , after all , a subjective experience , so a little objective rigor brought to bear on enjoyable experiences others might have had watching this movie should theoretically enable me to expand my own repertoire of aesthetic responses . the first way one could not have found enjoyment watching this film is by being seduced by the exotic locales . yes , there was a pan that lasted for about a minute of a pretty czech village , but otherwise the newtonian law of cinematics has once again been confirmed , and here 's the proof : in the bollywood movie , humtum , a scene that was meant to occur in paris was filmed on the museumplein in amsterdam ; so the equal and opposite gaffe was bound to be committed somewhere . in hostel , scenes meant to occur in amsterdam have been filmed ( jarringly ) in prague . and just like they did with the americans in borat , i can imagine ( in the cynical frame of mind this movie put me in ) the filmmakers telling european colleagues and extras , `` do n't worry , it does n't matter - we 'll never show this in your country . '' well , it eventually mattered to the fratboy who wanted to bring slavery back , and it should have mattered to the filmmakers . qed . after also eliminating direction , script , and acting as potential means for appreciating this movie i started to worry . yes , much thought had obviously gone into making this thing ; but the dusk-to-dawn pleasure/pain structure and obscure references did n't mesh well with the low-budget sinister spin on european vacation . worse , the unfortunate juxtaposition of beautiful naked flesh and extreme torture in this film exerts a pernicious influence on the psyche of the viewer - surely that could n't have been intended . and then , like being shot by a diamond bullet right through my forehead , it became clear that i 'd completely missed the point . this is a message film , and i 'd been stupid not to pick up on the movie 's lofty ambitions . the next challenge was to decipher the message , and i tell you this is the part that took the most time . at first i suspected a sort of buried agenda to keep americans from traveling outside their country . the lesson seemed so clear that sublimely beautiful european temptresses want our dollars , but they will 1 ) mock us at every opportunity for not being cool in an effeminate , european way , 2 ) shield their true intentions by brazenly conspiring against us to our face in their unfamiliar native tongues , 3 ) have an almost psychic rapport with thuggish male fellow-countrymen who intend to punish us for having both the motive ( wanting to have sex with beautiful girls ) and opportunity ( lots of aforesaid dollars and girls with loose morals ) to steal their women , 4 ) ultimately sell us over to be tortured because they 'll do anything for money ( those loose morals again ) , and 5 ) succeed in their nefarious plan because the rule of law ends at the us border . but this interpretation sounded paranoid when i played it back , and i suspected the ultra-violence of the movie had once again influenced my state of mind . what if this do-not-leave-the-us message was really the unintentional result of some other process at work in the filmmakers ' master plan ? so i started listening to the commentary track for more insight , but it was really irritating and i could n't listen to the whole thing . they 've apparently re-coined the expression , `bully ' , which must be a sort of teddy roosevelt macho thing . their country 's recent actions around the world have made many americans feel self-conscious and unloved abroad . it 's unrealistic to think all the issues caused by this will be resolved so soon after the trauma . americans have a very pronounced sense of national identity , and we should expect some confused , troubled people doing things that might not make immediate sense while they work things out for themselves . also ; paying women for sex has a long history , and i would n't think to question its place in society . however , like all those things we 're taught from childhood are wrong , paying for sex sets off a complex chain reaction of deep , conflicting emotions . it 's not always pretty to see these emotions being worked through , and unintentionally choosing film as the medium to do this was probably a mistake . having exhausted all other reasonable avenues , i 've come to the scientific conclusion that the only way to appreciate this movie is to share the sensibilities , sensitivities , and neuroses of the filmmakers ; and i find these to be distasteful . this film helps to mark a key boundary of aesthetic territory , and like the man said : `` you never know what 's enough until you know what 's too much . ''