pretty bad cheese the first 5 minutes was ok. after that , this tv-movie started using all the cliches of ... a tv-movie . a bad one . these cliches include : 1 . many references to babies both on and off the plane . 2 . young love as apparently-orphaned young adults ponder their future together . 3 . a supposedly very drunk man becoming rowdy and argumentative , yet showing no real signs of being drunk though much was said about the volume of his drinking . 4 . an unhappy man dictating some thoughts - then eventually joyfully reconsidering his comments and throwing the tape recorder away . 5 . the expanded time frame , where events that would normally take perhaps a couple minutes dragged out for 1/2 hour - in this case the final descent of the plane . 6 . simplistic explanations of some `` technical jargon '' for the benefit of only the audience . 7 . voice-overs of the thoughts of some of the characters as they are about to land . there were also some bad lapses of reality . these include : 1 . the claim that the airplane had never been test-flown or simulated when out of gas . 2 . having some sports cars whiz by only feet away - on a wet surface no less - from recreational hot-rodders parked on the abandoned runway who are working on cars and milling about . 3 . the apparently stupid teen who ca n't hear his father yelling and waving at him from 30 feet away to get the hell off the runway as the plane is about to land on him . the worst for last ... 4 . no one even attempts any crash position during the landing . 5 . after landing , the pilot and co-pilot sit there for 10 seconds and contemplate the minor amount of smoke coming up through the console . note there is no actual fire whatsoever ... 6 . after all the passengers slide down the rear slide , the co-pilot and other crew slide down , and gather right at the bottom of the slide rather than , say , getting off the runway away from the plane . only the pilot remains on board . he lingers in the doorway , then decides to go back into the nose again . why ? to fight the nonexistent fire . egads ! he is now overcome by smoke . we wait and wait for him to reappear , but gosh , he does n't . so the crew must climb back up the ladder to rescue him . finally everyone gets off the plane . everyone cheers and congratulates the foolhardy pilot . the end . except it 's not . there is a freeze-frame on each of the characters with a caption telling what happens to them in the future . i wanted to give it at least 2 stars but in all honesty i ca n't .