eh . not really . texas chainsaw massacre : the beginning ( jonathan liebesman , 2006 ) in the documentary that serves as one of the dvd extras for texas chainsaw massacre : the beginning , a number of the movie 's connections talk repeatedly about how their goal for this movie was to push the envelope with the gore . one even says that the people who went to see hostel and the hills have eyes ( 2006 ) will go to see this movie and expect the violence to be kicked up a notch . well , folks , i just saw the unrated version of your movie , and i 've only seen the rated version of hostel . and i hate to break it to you but , well , even cut by the censors , hostel blew you out of the water . for those who have been living in a cave for the past thirty-two years , a quick plot summary : there 's a very odd family living out in the middle of nowhere . when the main local business , a slaughterhouse , closed down , it took most of the population with it -- save this family . ( the fact that the slaughterhouse is still in operation in the original film , and there are neighbors in some of the original canon films , seems to have completely escaped screenwriter sheldon turner [ the longest yard ] . ) as with any tcm movie , there must be a batch of clueless teenagers , here two guys -- eric ( tru calling 's matthew bohmer ) , on his way back to vietnam , and his brother dean ( zerophilia 's taylor handley ) , who 's planning on ditching the war and heading for mexico -- and their girlfriends , bailey ( diora baird , recently of wedding crashers ) and chrissie ( the fast and the furious ' jordana brewster ) , respectively . there will also be a lot of revving chainsaws . now , i readily admit i 'm one of the people who did n't recognize the brilliance of tobe hooper 's original vision for a lot of years after i first saw the original film ( close to twenty , in fact ) -- thank you , dvd commentary , for pointing out so many things i 'd missed my first few times around . i 'm still not sure it deserves the classic status it has come up with since , but it 's a good , solid piece of work , groundbreaking for its time . there has n't been a single film , canonical or no , following it that 's lived up , but the straight remake marcus nispel popped out with a couple of years ago has been the best of a bad lot . unfortunately , it looks as if the sequels to the remake will have the same relative quality as the sequels to the original -- worse . the acting is wooden , the direction pedestrian , the special effects pretty good but nothing special . but what these guys were after , they tell us , was something really over the top . they were striving not to make a good movie , but to make the mother of all splatter films . and , quite simply , even within the hollywood machine , they were well upstaged by hostel before they even started filming . *