domestic life well-acted , but with little insight some people praise `we do n't live here any more '' as one of the realistic portrayals of two married couples , tired of lies , not really knowing what to do . it is also true that naomi watts and mark ruffalo have exceptional talent and here again they would not disappoint you with their fine acting . the film as a result looks like a filmed version of some john updike novels ( actually it is based on two shorts by andre dubus , whose `killings ' became `in the bedroom ' ) . but sorry , updike is not my favorite author , and the film 's touch is too desultory for me . no , `desultory ' is not the only real problem because i remember i was fascinated by the desultory realism of much more successful `in the bedroom . ' the real flaw of `we do n't live here any more ' is its dullness and all too familiar things about the four principal characters . mark ruffalo 's character jack is having affair with naomi watt 's edith and jack 's wife ( laura dern ) already suspects , or knows that his husband is cheating . but the affair means here uninspired , clichéd sex scenes between edith and jack among the woods in oregon , with naomi watts and mark ruffalo having sex against a tree ala `fatal attraction . ' edith husband hank ( peter krause ) teaches creative writing , and has just one book published . the alcoholism of laura dern 's character is suggested in the most obvious way ( you know what ) , but in the first place why did n't the filmmakers realize that her portrait as poor housekeeper with alcoholism is already a big cliché ? among these recycled materials , there are a few well-observed descriptions that deserve attention . it is the brief , but efficient study of the children in both families , and the film shows how these children accept the reality of the marriage that is falling apart . these clever , insightful moments , however , do not last long in the film , for it soon returns to the typical representation of the domestic life in america . we do n't want any big surprises , or twists and turns in this kind of film because we know we have none from the beginning . it is true that `we do n't live here any more ' presents a convincing portrait of boring and stagnant marriage in a slumbering small town in america , but the film goes nowhere from there , missing every chance for the more incisive study of the characters .