the king of sleeze-jing wong forgets that he had jet li starring in this movie jing wong truly sinks to a new low with this movie . jet has one oustanding action sequence but other than that , he just is n't used . jacky cheung is the star of this movie and plays an actor who absolutely never uses stunt doubles . it became apparent within 5 minutes that this movie was made to make fun of jackie chan . of course it did n't have to be so obvious but jing wong just keeps driving it into your head that he does his own stunts . so if you are familiar with jing then you know this is n't going to be a tribute to jackie . oh no , it is a punch to the throat through the movie screen . jet li plays cheung 's bodyguard and ends up doing the a stunt for him . after setting up his stupid jackie chan character , jing tries to do a remake of die hard . remember how you never knew what bruce willis was going to do and it was always surprising ? well jing makes about the worst movie possible from here on . instead of being clever , he makes jet just keep storming in on the hostages and then flee . at one point he takes a helicopter up and starts shooting right into the buiding at the main bad guy with all of the hostages standing around . after the helicopter crashes into the side of the building it does n't blow up , it just destroys everything on that floor . so other than one outstanding action sequence between jet li and ben lam ( guy with sunglasses ) , this movie is a complete waste of time . even billy chow could n't save this one . of course it would help if wong jing was smart enough to capitalize on the success of billy chow and jet li in 'fist of legend ' , but instead we do n't get to see them fight and get to look at billy chow in a thong . yeah , that it just what i am looking for . the universal laser and video company version is ok but the imbedded subtitles are sometimes hard to read . there is a version of this released by dimension video ( grrrr ) that has been retitled meltdown and has been shortened by 10 minutes and also has gotten a horrible new soundtrack including english dubbing and rap music replacing what was in the original . does n't matter which one you get because the chinese version is n't really any better since it is not a good movie to begin with .