deceiving and insubstantial after seening and reviewing fahrenhyte 9/11 , i chanced upon this film and watched it . it is deceiving and insubstantial . as the # 1 amazon reviewer for non-fiction , including most of the important books about national security , 9/11 , oil , and terrorism , i have to state there are exactly two points of truth in this shallow stupid little film : 1 ) the photo of bush reading a book upside down was a fabrication , bush was actually listening . 2 ) clinton blew it . correct . madeline albright will go down in history for refusing to let her staff report terrorism honestly , and tony lake will go down in history for failing to get it right . it bears mention that then commandant of the marine corps al gray did get it right , in his article `` global intelligence challenges of the 1990 's '' published in the fall of 1988 , but no one wanted to listen . i am impressed by the teacher of color who was in charge of the classroom that day , recounting how she felt bush was truly presidential , and wise not to add to the panic by rushing out of the room . absolutely . good point . the rest of this extreme rightist propaganda tract is totally disconnected from reality and the truth . the movie claims that gore lost because of nader , and completely ignores the hard documented proof that the florida leeadership acted to disenfranchise over 35,000 people of color , one reason that the bush family was so confident , in advance , of victory in florida . this trashy film fails to address the many angry representatives and the inert senate , including gore , who failed to use the power of congress to redress the impeachable wrong done to america in 2000 ( and again , this time in ohio , in 2004 ) . anything that features snap-shots of ann coulter is very likely to be loosely related to the truth , reality , or the public interest . i am glad i watched this film , because it reconfirms my gravest fears -- the extreme right in america now has a propaganda machine more powerful that hitler 's , and a brainwashed following more lethal than the hilter youth . this is seriously troubing stuff . i gave moore four stars , one star down for being too glib by half . that 's an honest assessment . this shallow little movie gets two stars , and both of those are for reflecting what is in the small minds of the nutty right