tedious , ham-fisted direction , groan-inducing dialog ... simply awful antzcak 's direction is inexplicable and the film is weighed down by a directionless , melodramatic script and technical shortcomings . the adr ( dialog overdubbing ) is incompetent and terribly distracting , making the film sound like a radio drama recorded in a basement ; all the more odd considering that in all other respects the project seems well-funded and professional -- great sets , superior costuming and impeccable lighting . the gorgeous cinematography is brutalized by a directorial style characterized by long , tedious dialog punctuated by frenetic , fast-cut flashback and dream sequences that contribute neither to our understanding of chopin 's character nor the events driving the plot forward . non-sequiturs abound ; antzcak seems to have been attempting to create a mood piece to accompany the brilliant musical performances , rather than a sustained narrative . but the only moods sustained are bewilderment and boredom . chopin comes off as a selfish boor of a prima dona ; perhaps historically acurate , but hardly compelling on screen . what does it say about this movie that , in a crucial scene where a wagon carrying chopin nearly topples over a precipice , you find yourself rooting for the precipice ? unlike the vastly superior amedeus or the merely pedestrian immortal beloved , you learn nothing about the connection between the composer 's life and his music . antzack seems singularly uninterested in the historical signifigance of chopin 's acheivement , the nature of his talent 's development , his freindship/rivalry with liszt , or the musical environment of the day . desire for love actually has more in common with a film like jules et jim , in that it dwells on the inner dynamics of a doomed and disfunctional romance ; unfortunately the characters are n't one tenth as compelling or sympathetic . desire for love ends with the composer 's protracted death , like amadeus and immortal beloved did with mozart and beethoven , respectively . but it fails to evoke the tragic mood of the latter two ; the film itself seems infected by a consumptive , cinematic analog of the protagonist 's malaise , eating itself from within and finally wheezing to a merciful termination