it had potential ; i 'll give it that the last time i saw the names `` adam goldberg '' and `` giovanni ribisi '' together , they were two american soldiers who perished while trying to save a certain private ryan . goldberg co-wrote and directed this contemporary psychological drama that has all the ingredients for a great finale but gets left in the oven too long . at times towards the end i was thinking it could have been something perhaps similar to `` memento '' or something of that nature . what this film gives you is a plethora of cross analyzing ideas meshed with real time parallels , that ultimately bogs down in a mosh of messy execution . some of the biggest points and profound themes that it spends so much time getting to in a bizarre and confusingly intricate way are so simplistic they leave you yawning . despite a stellar cast that besides rabisi also features jason lee , christina ricci , vince vaughn , haylie duff and elvis costello , it gets to far out of the main points of what it is trying to convey . rabisi stars as gray evans , a movie star actor who is having marital trouble . gray starts thinking amid his days of working on the set , going through fan email , and getting bugged by people , that a fan is stalking him . relentless in his obsession of this belief , he starts obsessing about others around him . great ideas here but then the film basically spends too much time zigzagging around to all the different characters and locales . we understand that gray seems to have a connection with a film grad who is also a fan and is suspected by him at one time , of being the stalker , but by the time 100 minutes roles by it gets to the point of not caring . the ideas are there , i just feel it was a bit over ambitious in the portrayal of it all . the sections that are supposed to be psychological really come off more like psycho confusing , and the parts that are to be rewarding in tying up loose ends towards the films finish end up falling flat . if you like independent films , or want to try something different , by all means give it a try . i do n't see it as being something i would watch again , or have in my collection for killing time on a sunday afternoon with