when life is not enough ? this film seems to want to have it both ways - offering the premise that not all disability is disposable - just sampedro 's . an incredible amount of talent and creativity went into a film that pays homage to ... well , plainly put - a man that was too petulant to live . the movie presents ramon sampedro - a talented , intelligent and articulate man as someone who ultimately proves to be a self-pitying whiner . it was not that he was not capable of living a life of accomplishment and satisfaction - he simply refused to . despite the acclaim and admiration that his writing had brought to him , despite the devotion of those around him that loved and cared for him , sampedro seems a bit like the child who gathers his marbles up from the playground and marches home because someone had n't played by his rules . ( refusing a wheelchair ? c'mon ! ) granted , the stress , humiliation and despair of being a quadriplegic can not be minimalized nor discounted . however , giving up on what you may have once hoped your life would be for what it ultimately becomes proves to be difficult for all of us - no matter what the size or nature of our own personal challenges . ( oddly enough the very limitations that he views as untenable are most likely the factors that pushed him to reach inside himself and find a voice that brought him such attention and celebrity . imagine the platform that was his ... and was thrown away ) yes , yes - allow the man to end his life if he is incapable of recognizing the gift that he squandered ; let us be done with him if he so chooses . we should not , however , celebrate his cowardice - the easy out - this foolish waste of something precious . what an insult this film seems to those who struggle quietly everyday with half the talents , abilities or the emotional resources of devoted family and friends that were at sampedro 's disposal . those gifts for which others could only envy , sampedro discarded in self-indulgent and careless abandon . the joys that others could only dream about , he chose to reject . it would be better instead for us to triumph with stephen hawking ( `` brief history of time '' ) , christy brown ( `` my left foot '' ) or helen keller ( `` the miracle worker '' ) - each of whom had to face the equal of the challenges that sampedro faced , but did not cower in resignation or mawkish self-absorption . instead they rose above the limitations ( those imposed on them either by themselves or those around them ) and made all our lives better for their struggle .