very overrated , narcissitic , and self indulgent ... . i was immensely disappointed by this film . the `` avant-garde '' style of the film has been done better by other filmmakers ( specifically derek jarman , kenneth anger , and harmony korine ) , and the film is mostly about jonathan , not about his mother . the critics made this film sound like it was an attempt by jonathan to bring him closer to his mother , to try and understand her by making a film about her , and to bring `` closure '' to their relationship . well , the film is n't really about jonathan 's mother , it 's strictly about him . we hear and see tons of information ( with annoying title cards ) about jonathan 's life , career , and loves . it feels like an episode of `` this is jonathan 's life '' , as if jonathan is this absolutely fascinating , brilliant individual that we must all pay attention to . he may become a great artist someday , but he is n't there yet . jonathan uses his mother merely as an excuse to make a very self-indulgent , narcissitic film about himself . he does n't really seem interested in her , other than as an excuse to show how much he 's suffered , not really about her suffering . while jonathan had a horrendous childhood , i felt very little sympathy towards him , as he is constantly mugging for the camera in a `` feel sorry for me , i 'm gay and my mother is insane '' way . the man has been taping himself since he was in grammar school , so he 's just a tad in love with himself , methinks . harmony korine 's julien donkey-boy is a film that deals with a schizophernic , and it is much more interesting and artistic than this film ( korine 's uncle is a schizophernic ) . derek jarman shot his films in multiple formats similar to this film , like 35mm , 16mm , video , and super8 , and weaved the images into an artistic and fascinating tapestry . kenneth anger , as well as jarman , infused a gay sensibility into their films , which jonathan does n't do very well . overall , disappointing , considering critics said it was absolutely brilliant ... .