seagal saves the day without doing many actions -- so boring when i saw so-so actioner 'belly of the beast , ' i thought steven seagal was well on the way to his 'comeback , ' finally realizing that authentic-looking martial arts actions are what gave him the stardom , which is however fading away very fast . now i saw this film , and know i was terribly wrong . his next film 'out of reach ' is a huge letdown , probably the final nail in the coffin . do n't get me wrong , i really like his films made in the 90s , like 'under siege ' action-packed escapism entertainment . in 'out of reach ' steven seagal plays one billy ray lancing , an ex-agent living in the wilds of canada , where he finds injured animals and bring them to health . yet another embironmentally conscious hero from seagal , but ... does n't he see that these social messages have nothing to do with making good action films ? add to that , billy ray exchanges letters with a little girl irena living in an orphanage in poland . when it is reported that she is missing , and a nasty businee of 'human traffic ' is suspected , he travels there incognito , secures a help from the local policewoman ( while he has no id ) , speaks a bit of french , and hits a pc keyboard like a pro , better than a polish technichian , to restore a secretly recorded image . we meet a hissable baddie ( matt schultz ) , but anyway we are sure seagal will win , because he has taught the little girl how to decode the 'cyphers ' ( and check out how she uses it , a scene which makes unexpectedly hilarious 'you- got ta -be-kiddin ' 0moment ) . so , how about the fact-moving kicking and chopping , once seagal 's trademark ? no , these thrilling martial arts actions are gone forever in this new film . you just do n't have actions in 'out of reach . ' as i counted them , well , in the first 40 minutes of 'out of reach ' you can see only two action set-pieces : in one , seagal 's hero billy breaks a few arms and legs of the unkind government agents ( about 30 seconds ) , and much later billy smashes the glass of hotel bathroom and drops an assassin onto a parked car ( another 30 seconds ) . that 's it , that 's all . there are more actions to come , obligatory shoot-outs and sword fights , but not enough to call 'out of reach ' an action film . the pace is terribly tedious , the images ( when at night ) are too dark , and worst of all , not only seagal but slmost all the polish cast sleepwalk in the pedestrian story . little girl looks bored while she is supposed to be in danger . finally , about director po-chih leong ( fairly good in jude law 's brooding thriller with a vampire theme 'the immortal ' ) who is the least likely choice in seagal 's entire filmography to succeed in staging exciting actions , and the results turned out as we feared . the slow-paced story is sleep-inducing , and what little action bits in the film are amateurish at best , with poorly-constructed shots in which fast editing attempts to conceal seagal is no longer moving his bodies like he used to do .