a contrary opinion everybody i know loves this film . in today 's environment , when wkw is being hailed as the premier director from asia , and one of the world 's best , i do n't know how many really actually love the film , and how many do n't have the courage to state a contrary opinion . make no mistake , i think wkw is one of the greatest directors i have ever watched - how can somebody who makes a movie like `` in the mood for love '' ( itmfl ) not be ? actually , his greatness lies not just in his ability to make a movie like itmfl , but in his versatility . it is almost impossible to conceive that the same person made both itmfl and chungking . well , his greatness notwithstanding , i ca n't stand this film . and no , i ca n't sit , lie , or do anything else with it either . so what is it about this movie which gets my goat ? the directorial style , and the cinematography . actually , i think parts of the latter are great , and the parts i do n't like are influenced by the former , so let me just talk about the former . wkw uses a particular style which extends across most of his other films , including `` happy together '' and `` fallen angels '' ( yes , i 've seen all of them , and hate almost all of them uniformly ) . the hallmark of this style is a very modern , staccato , piecemeal approach , stringing together relatively disparate ideas , scenes , or action sequences ( almost reminiscent of godard 's `` breathless '' , as the editorial review says here , though not quite ) . his style is further marked by characteristic filming styles - for example , the slow shutter speed effect . actually , this is one of his peeves , which even spills over to itmfl , where it oh-so-doesn't-fit-and-stands-out-like-a-sore-thumb . having watched nearly all his films , and having seen the wide array of situations across which is deploys this mechanism , and having spent hours analyzing the potential connecting theme , i can assure you that there is absolutely no uniformity and sense to its usage . it gets used for dream-like sequences , for grounded reality ; for sentimental togetherness , for aloofness ; for tears , for laughter ; for thoughts , for action ; the list goes on . wkw similarly uses other weapons in his vast director 's repertoire to some bizarre effects , taking improvisation to an extreme where it stops being laudatory . the above notwithstanding , let me round off by saying that if the kind of style i have delineated above appeals to you , then you should definitely watch this film , for outside of his jarring style , wkw has pieced together a great story and actors . as for myself , i will continue to watch every one of his films , living in the suspense of what this genius will do next - make me fall in love , or hate .