racist movie - worst black stereotyping i have ever seen this movie was pretty awful . since i am ranking it with 1 star , then according to another reviewer i must not have a soul . hey , it does n't feel bad ! this movie has the worst black stereotyping of any of movie i have ever seen , particularly in a sci-fi movie . it is worse than the blaxploitation films of the 70 's , which were at least entertaining . this movie is about a group of teenage white kids , with one token black thrown in just for the hell of it . `` but just how 'black ' is he ? , '' you may be wondering . well the movie makes it clear that he 's a true soul man because it goes out of its way to establish these facts : 1 . he talks different from the whites . ( `` hey bodee . '' `` his name 's bodhi ! '' `` well you say it your way , and i 'll say it mine . '' or something to that effect . ) 2 . he breakdances . ( and we all know that all black people can breakdance , ca n't they ? ) 3 . he likes basketball . ( again , every white person knows that black people all like basketball and they are all good at it , right ? ) 4 . he raps . ( because a person is n't truly black unless they can do a little hip-hop , can they ? ) i 'm a white guy . and i 'm not overly sensitive to racism issues . but watching this movie really surprised me . i was amazed to see such a blatant black stereotype . i ca n't say that it 's a good thing . it is quite embarassing to watch , actually . what where they thinking ? this movie would never have been made that way in today 's day and age . the movie itself is pretty lame . it was made back in the roller-blading / cyberpunk craze of the 80 's . it has the usual bleak dystopian future typical of those movies in those days . it also features a funky little ball named bodhi . it is the weirdest , most nonsensical story i have ever watched . it is almost like a bad dream that somebody wrote down as soon as they woke up , which was later worked into a screenplay . this movie is so stupid that it is painful to watch . the only good reason to see it is to see a few young actors such as jason patric ( the lost boys ) and jami gertz ( the lost boys , twister , still standing ) . it is also nice to see richard jordan ( logan 's run ) , as well as the stunning sarah douglas ( superman ii , conan the destroyer ) starring in a villainess roll , as usual . sarah douglas really does make a good villain , too . it 's too bad that her talent was so wasted in this crapfest of a movie . `` sphere of longiness '' ? ech ! i do n't understand all you people who are giving this movie 5 stars . i mean , what are you thinking ? it has to be just the `` i love the 80 's '' nostalgia-factor kicking in . i do n't see any other rational reason for this phenomenon . and please . skating on an overgrown road ? skating in the dirt ? they 'd get about 10 feet before a rock stuck in their skates and they went flying . it might be fun to watch if you can make yourself believe that rollerblades work in the sand . i 'd have to say , that other dystopian future skating flick , `` prayer of the rollerboys '' is a much better movie than this . of course that ai n't saying much , because that movie pretty much stinks too . buy something else . anything else . if not for yourself , then at least to show the black people of the world a little basic human respect