when things get hot , people get burned ... bet on it ! based on the novel the big arm by clark howard with a screenplay by robert roy pool , this drama directed by ben bolt feels like an adaptation of a large canvas novel with all the detail left in , so that everything reads as subsidiary . set in the chicago of the 1950 's , matt dillon stars as a dice player from indiana seeking the big time . however , when you 're juggling at least 4 plots it 's only natural that not all of them will come together for a satisfying conclusion . the most promising one concerns dillon 's hustler-like competition with tommy lee jones as the owner of a strip club , with jones having the same spot between the eyebrows as dillon . the problem with filming dice is that the actual game is monotonous , so the best bolt could do is create tension by delaying the next roll or the raising of financial stakes , though he does provide an early montage of dillon with david marshall grant on a winning spree and falling dice and money to the sounds of shake , rattle and roll on the soundtrack . the only other visual trick is the sparks of an overhead train on it 's tracks as dillon and diane lane as jones ' stripper wife kiss to fever . the best of the screenplay is a laugh line of sarcasm and forboding given to meg hogarth as dillon 's mother re his dice mentor 's funeral & quot ; i nearly got crushed in the crowd & quot ; , and cherry jones as a patsy cline-like singer who sneaks up behind dillon , covering his eyes with a guess who ? dillon says her perfume gives her away and she replies & quot ; aint nobody gon na give me away but my daddy & quot ; . this use of eyes and the eyes of the dice are also parallel with bruce dern as the husband of lee grant , dillon 's employer . dern is a former dice champ who has been blinded , but unfortunately this plot point gets no payoff . dillon is also given two romantic partners in lane and suzy amis as a mother of a child out of wedlock . the madonna/whore dichotomy is rather obvious , and the symbolism worse , with amis ' child scoring points for her and the way lane is presented so unflatteringly scores points against her . lane 's fan dance does n't help , since the focus on the scen is more dillon 's twisted attraction/repulsion . the 1950 's period works for dillon 's razor etched beauty , the perfect locale for his photographer bruce weber appeal , and he even gives a method touch to the way he hits his own face with a restaurant menu . watch for lolita davidovich as another of jones ' strip club entertainers