so boring , it gets bored with itself there are just two rules when you create a thriller with a pretty lead : 1 ) the lead ( the delectable ashley judd ) had better show some skin . 2 ) thou shalt not be boring . twisted utterly fails on both counts . basically , judd is jessica shepard , a messed up cop who specializes in hunting serial killers . she 's fond of bedding men she meets at late night bars , because she 's self-destructive . only jessica looks fabulous all the time , even when she 's been on a bender ( which is apparently every night ) . how she maintains her good looks without stinking up the place is just another part of cinema magic . jessica is mentored by john mills ( samuel l. jackson ) . for a second there i thought jackson was going to play an understated version of his usual maniacal self . i was wrong . things take a turn for the strange after jessica discovers that every man she sleeps with is murdered . and she keeps having these weird blackouts every night . the victims wash up on the shore the next day with a single cigarette burn on their hand . poor jessica is haunted by her parents ' murder/suicide and wonders ... since her father went on a mass-murdering spree before he killed himself , could she too have the `` serial killer gene '' ? jessica is paired with mike delmarco ( andy garcia ) , an italian goomba who is alternately creepy , lecherous , and like everyone else in this ridiculous movie , wants to get into her pants . mike follows her around an awful lot ... could he be the killer ? or maybe it 's the ex-boyfriend cop , jimmy schmidt ( mark pellegrino ) . or maybe it 's ... actually , i figured it out in the first ten minutes . being something of a true crime fan , and having read a bit on the subject , this entire premise is absurd . you do n't wake up one day and become a serial killer ; if anyone actually got a good look at the life of a serial killer , it screams danger from day one . pretty jessica has none of those problems in her past , except for a vague `` suppressed rage '' that manifests itself in kinky sex and kicking people in the face . her cherubic face shows no signs of hardship , and neither does the rest of her . although the script wants us to believe she 's a haggard cop , the camera is only too happy to zoom in on her rear end . not once , but twice . and it 's not a naked rear end either . so we have a gorgeous female cop who sleeps around , yet there are very few bedroom scenes . we have a serial killer plot that is connected by red herrings ( who is that lady across the street ? why does jessica fiddle with a cigarette but never light it ? ) . on one hand , the cops are strictly by the book ; they make a big deal out of the fact that jessica kicks a serial killer in the face . on the other hand , nobody pulls jessica off the case when she 's a prime suspect , nor watch her home when the serial killer is obviously following her around . neither sleazy or highbrow , gritty or moralistic , twisted is so boring , it gets bored with itself