stick with the original when hollywood decided that the classic christmas cartoon how the grinch stole christmas needed updating , i experienced a quaver of fear . how , i wondered , could anyone bring the classic dr. seuss tale and its gnarly green villain to life as vividly as the 1966 animation ? i can give a mixed report . jim carrey , in the title role , does a marvelous job recreating the nasty antithesis of yuletide joy . his actions and facial contortions are near-perfect ( although his voice , i must admit , pales in comparison to the cartoon version 's boris karloff ) . he dominates the entire film with energy and antics only slightly overshadowed by his prodigious makeup and costume . anthony hopkins also did good work as the narrator . but director ron howard did n't do the seuss story complete justice . instead of reimagining the original through a new lens , he gave us a completely different story . the whos of who-ville are the primary victims here -- where once they were beatific inhabitants of a remote and pastoral village , they 've become greedy , materialistic , hard-partying gluttons in a town based solely on marketing and capitalism . cindy lou who , the innocent tot who discovers the grinch at his nefarious thievery , is now an older child ( taylor momsen ) bent on redeeming the famous hermit , who boldly braves his mountain fastness to spread her version of holiday cheer . even the grinch 's pseudo-santa sleigh has been reinvented , now boasting rocket boosters . and the new back-story , which attempts to explain the grinch 's christmas loathing , does n't make a lot of sense . while the cartoon gave us a villain who was evil , rotten to his core and filled with inexplicable rage at the world , this grinch is simply misunderstood and overly mischievous . also , should the grinch 's big redemption scene really involve so much heart-thumping pain ? i feel sorry for the children who will grow up associating this movie with dr. seuss ' marvelous story , rather than the animated feature which still holds up so well after 35 years . a favorite christmas tradition has been replaced with typical hollywood glitz and glitter , and the season is poorer for it . please , if you have children ( or a childlike fascination for christmas ) , stick with the original . by tom knapp , rambles edito