kiss my assassin ! alright , let 's do this one up on the bounce and by the numbers : 1 ) bridget fonda is red-smoking hot . fire-breathing dragon hot . albeit in an angular , toothy kind of wait , which , do n't get me wrong , is just fine . 2 ) bridget fonda plays maggie , who , with some pantera-lovin ' buds break into a pharmacy to get a little better living through pharmacology , unleash a little jihad on the owner , and get themselves into a firefight . everybody gets riddled with bullets , except maggie , who , in the wretched bowels of withdrawal and all-twitchy-like , greases a cop . 3 ) note : did i mention that `` point of no return '' is a big-studio remake of luc besson 's utterly insane , bump-n-grind brutal , deliciously bleak and nihilistic `` nikita '' ? i did not ? shoot me . no , no , put down that steyr sniper rifle , i 'm kidding there cowboy , sheesh ... 4 ) with that in mind , all you need to know is this : studio director john badham ( who directed , ummm , the cinematic marvels `` bird on a wire '' and `` short circuit '' , which proves he 's a real , er , edgy dude ) churned out what amounts to a shot-for-shot remake of `` nikita '' . only it 's like the carbon dioxide remake of `` nikita '' : odorless , colorless , and tasteless . 5 ) alright : so maggie gets hauled into a supermax facility , deep-sixed by the government , manhandled a little too much by super-duper-secret agent bob ( gabriel byrne , starting his slow slide from sneering , edgy brilliance into avuncular b-movie actor hell ) , erased from the big book of life and super-shuttled down a little orwellian `` memory-hole '' , and offered a choice : society made you , baby . now we 'll give you your murder 101 training , and you can be a sanctioned killer . 6 ) that 's about it . it 's basically `` nikita '' , without the hip and happening and totally ominous techno-score , without luc besson 's surreally grim edginess and sublime cinematography , with new orleans dubbing for nice ( without even the fun of a hurricane , or a shoot-out at the superdome , which might have enlivened this turd ) . it 's like `` nikita '' with all the fun and style and gratuitous killing bled out . 7 ) that said , fonda looks good writhing around on a bed in her hello kitty panties . 8 ) oh , and harvey keitel shows up in an enzo ferrari , i think , though i was way too liquored up by then to care . do you care ? he 's channeling the terminator by way of a tax accountant , and was way too goofy to live . 9 ) the original `` nikita '' showed me something i 'd never seen before : an indonesian diplomat literally getting flushed down a toilet . this one showed me something i 've seen many times : an edgy , nasty , grimy , kinetic foreign flick getting flushed down the remake toilet . terminate with extreme prejudice . js