great dvd of a poor movie concerning the dvd : yet another mgm quickie , containing the film in its correct 1.66:1 aspect ratio with some nicely restored video elements . the footage from other films that was edited in looks poor . the 2.0 mono soundtrack is in good shape . there are basic subtitles in french and spanish , scene selections as well as a beat-up trailer . concerning the film : ( from my website , www.angelfire.com/film/eurowar ) the always-overrated david mccallum is one of the few good things in this low-budget world war ii adventure piece , yet another quickie from oakmont films . sometime prior to d-day - probably early '44 or '43 - a mosquito squadron is sent to bomb a v-1 rocket installation in france , when squadron leader scott ( david buck ) is shot down and presumed dead . his second-in-command , quint munroe ( who just happens to be like a life-long brother to him ) has to return to england and tell his beautiful blonde wife ( suzanne neve ) the sad news . as one would expect , munroe and mrs. scott slowly fall in love . but when munroe is chosen to lead a mission to bomb a new v-3 development center , things will chance quite a bit - because scott is a prisoner held at the target fortress ! from start to finish , `` mosquito squadron '' is a total hack-job - literally . the story is filled with enough contrivances and clichés to drive any mildly serious critic mad . let us take a brief look at a 1964 film entitled `` 633 squadron '' . in said film , a squadron commander has a best friend shot down over norway , and falls in love with his sister . later on , he is assigned to bomb the fortress where his friend is being held . sound familiar ? and that 's not all our title film steals ! virtually all of the aerial battle footage is directly lifted from `` 633 squadron '' , while the new footage is comprised almost entirely of horrible-looking miniatures hanging from far-too-visible wires . the writers have also directly copied another classic war film , `` the dam busters '' . the feasibility of munroe 's mission revolves around a bouncing bomb , which will skip along the ground and roll into an open tunnel leading to the v-3 rockets . ( i wo n't even mention how convenient it was to leave a big open tunnel to drop a bomb into ) . the real bouncing bomb ( made famous in 1954 's `` the dam busters '' ) was designed to skip on water to destroy nazi dams - not the ground as is seen here ! the idea of dropping a bouncing bomb on the ground is , simply , ludicrous and impossible . introduction of this concept kills the storyline immediately . the low budget shows up in every action sequence : the french resistance force is comprised of a half-dozen men in berets carrying sten guns , and only a handful of german guards enforce security at the `` fortress '' . the forests are obviously cheaply furnished soundstages , and a face-off with an imitation german `` tank '' is ludicrously shot . we never really see much of the german-held chateau , and when we do it never looks as though we 're inside some high-tech development center a la `` operation crossbow '' . the scenes set in england fare somewhat better , with some excellent scenes set at airfields and a rather rowdy officer 's club . david mccallum and the cast of little-known english actors do a fair job , even though the no-frills script does n't give them much to do . mccallum is a fair actor , nowhere near as great as his fans hail him to be , though . he was better suited for television than cinema , and that comes out in every scene . he often looks uncomfortable and awkward , but delivers his often banal dialog convincingly and with conviction . his scenes with neve are often touching , even though audiences have seen this dozens of times before . there are n't any other actors worth mention among the ensemble , besides perhaps charles gray who would go on to play blofeld in the james bond film `` diamonds are forever '' a few years later . oakmont productions financed a number of cheap british war films in the late 1960s and early 1970s : `` attack on the iron coast '' , `` hell boats '' , `` the last escape '' and `` the one thousand plane raid '' among them . these quickies were best suited for tv viewing instead of theatrical release , but united artists picked them all up and put them on the big screen . anyone expecting a classic here - or in any of the aforementioned pieces for that matter - is in for a big disappointment . check out `` 633 squadron '' instead .