pretentious biggest piece of pretentious ( ... ) i 've seen in a long long time ! ! ! it 's all very autobiographical about this really `` cool '' and `` talented '' actress anna battista who is adored by her public and so wants to get into directing . daria nicolodi plays anna 's mother . ( who else ? ) and asia is shown as nude as can be involved in a handful of sex scenes that are at times bordering on the harder side of softcore ( all of course in the interest of `` honesty '' ) . and that 's about the only good thing that can be said about the movie . the film just screams `` me ! me ! me ! '' pity that not everyone who is director , writer and actor in one is automatically an orson welles . prior to the start we even have a clip of asia advising us that we probably heard already how bad the film is , but that it really is very good ( should n't that be up to the viewer to decide ? ? ? ) and that it had saved her life blah blah . this movie has - hands on stomach - some of most pathetic and amateurish performances i have seen in quite some time . it so wants to be arty , hip and experimental and is even shot in three different languages : english , italian and french . i would have actually preferred if the english parts had also been subtitled as i really have n't got a clue what ms argento was mumbling most of the time . in actual fact this ended up being the first dvd where i completely gave up on following the director 's commentary : i had to really crank up the sound on it , and still found it hard to hear what she had to say ( contentwise : very little anyway ) . for someone who is supposed to be such an expressive actress , asia simply has the most boring , dull and expressionless voice i have ever heard recorded . i was never the biggest asia argento fan , but after watching this flick my respect for her dropped to new lows . this lady has one of the biggest egos in the biz , with unfortunately very little talent or trace of humour to boost and is an utter moron full of pseudo-intellectual pretensions .