2 star dud after a man is caught cheating in a poker game a lynch party is formed and the man is murdered . soon after the murderers begin dying violent and mysterious deaths . dean martin plays a ramblin ' gambler in five card stud , a movie that probably did n't , but certainly could have , pounded the fatal nail into the traditional western before handing the franchise over to the italians . although it sells itself as a mystery/western - who 's killing all these gambling varmints , anyhow ? - a five-second study of the movie 's poster will pretty much shuffle out who 's the good guy , who 's the bad guy , and who 's going to ride into the sunset with inger stevens . i watched this movie the first time years and years ago , back in the knee-britches days . it 's possible some of synapses fired and connected and i somehow , after a generation plus , remembered how the plot - and i use that term loosely - ran . i doubt it , though . five card stud does n't bother itself with keeping an edge to the mystery . robert mitchum plays a gun-toting preacher who opens a church soon after the lynching occurs , roddy mcdowell is an angry young man with a chip on his shoulder . katherine justice plays the shapely tomboy sister of mcdowell and inger stevens is wasted , again , as a hair-cutting floozie . both women , of course , have lips puckered for the six-shootin ' gambling man martin . this one was pretty excruciating , and it 's really tempting to blame it all on the bored , and boring , martin . that 's probably not fair , though . the script is murky , the dialogue laughable ( at the wrong times , ) and , like i said , the mystery is never all that much of a mystery . martin , like mitchum , was best in movies that let him play it laid-back and coolly bemused . he needs manic energy to react to - think shirley maclaine , a young sally fields , or even jerry lewis . he does n't have the chops to carry a movie without someone like that , though . mitchum could , but the movie does n't put him at the center . it would n't matter anyway , because the only hope for this trite oater would be razing the story and starting over . about the only fun this one provides - besides a scene with mitchum and yaphet kotto near the end - is trying to decide who looks more bored , martin or mitchum . my money 's on mitchum , but martin gives him a go at it . a waste of a good cast , and , save for a scene or two , a waste of a viewer 's time .