an ironic anachronism , replete with hollywood pc shibboleths you can tell this movie was released in 1998 because you can still see new york 's twin towers standing , and because of the groveling incantations of `` islam is a religion of peace , '' repeated often enough ( along with casting a good guy arab cop , tony shalhoub ) to offset any pc-incorrect image of portraying islamofascist terrorism . a measure of how silly this movie appears from the rearview mirror of 2006 and all the ghastly islamofascist atrocities since 9/11 is the first terrorist scene in the movie , where denzel washington as fbi agent tries , via megaphone , to talk the terrorists down from a hostage situation . he succeeds in getting the terrorists to let children exit the bus . jihadis with a conscience -- now where have we ever seen this actually happen - beslan ( 186 children killed ) ? london ? madrid ? mumbai ? only as old people start to exit the bus on a second appeal by denzel does the bus blow up . after a series of bombings in new york 's supermarkets , movie theaters , restaurants , etc. , pressure builds to call in the u.s. army under martial law . bruce willis , the army commander who is to take on this task , warns time and again that this is n't the proper role of the army , but then , as one of the president 's advisors explains in the movie , as if this is just one of those political things , the `` president wants to appear presidential . '' remember , this is 1998 , and though critics of the movie , such as the new yorker , refer to willis 's character as a `` fascist u.s. army general '' , the decision to grant him martial law authority would have been , ahem , none other than bill clinton . the movie slides by that little detail , however , to make it look like willis , all on his own , is rounding up all able-bodied men of the muslim persuasion ( less draconian , by the way , than the rounding up of all japanese-americans on the west coast by fdr , where the threat was less real and imminent than in this movie , but let 's not talk about that , either ; we 're still in 1998 , after all ) . of course , the cia comes in for its usual whipping by hollywood , where cia agent annette bening has kept crucial facts to herself because she has personal scores to settle -- you see , she is the one who trained and armed some of these terrorists who are now running amok . oh , yeah , sure , women-hating al-qaeda types would allow somebody like pretty annette to train them ! but the best nonsense comes at the end : denzel washington and a handful of fbi agents rush into army combat hq and somehow surround bruce willis and pull their guns , saying he is under arrest for `` violating the constitution '' ( hey , why are n't they arresting the guy who ordered the martial law , bill clinton ? ) . the general 's clueless security detail also draws its guns , and there 's a mexican standoff . denzel , using the same powers of persuasion that freed at least the kiddies from islamofascist murder on the bus , appears to be succeeding in talking the army soldiers out of using their guns to protect willis . so willis accepts the situation , allows himself to be arrested , and as the credits roll we see all these army vehicles leaving brooklyn in shame -- all it took was to bust the `` fascist '' general . ta-dah ! so the movie , with a heap of literary license , proves at least one point at the end : back in the 1990s , it did n't take much for bill clinton to wuss out and avoid taking on the terrorists . meanwhile , some day , sooner or later , the idea of pre-emptive internment of jihad-age muslim men as a defensive measure will indeed catch on , if not here , then perhaps in france , the netherlands , russia , israel -- it will be interesting to see who goes first . because it is not just the newtonian laws of physics that decree that for every action there is an equal and opposite reaction . when they do the sequel to this preposterous movie in new york sans the world trade center , willis will play the part of the hero , and whoever gets stuck with the fbi agent role will be the fool . i give the movie two stars instead of one , because i would hate to discourage the making of such a sequel , and two , because any movie with annette bening in it automatically gets an extra star in my book