typical van damme is that the rock who is in this movie looking malnourished with the rotted teeth and sinister contact lenses make-up ? this movie is horrible . but , it is typical for a van damme flick . horrible acting , over-produced with that cheesy waxy feel to it , non-existent storyline and the usual idiotic ending . i have to admit though , that i have most of van damme 's movies . he is a decent martial artist . in my opinion his best movies are `` kickboxer '' and `` bloodsport '' . these are his only movies that are actually enjoyable to watch and somewhat inspiring . i have a few observations / comments / questions to make that should be humorous for the seasoned van damme fan : is n't it funny that with all his millions of dollars that van damme ca n't find a plastic surgeon who can hide that silly bump on his forehead ... why must every character van damme plays speak with a french accent ? he tries to play a wide variety of different action hero roles but always the character must in some way originate from france . is n't this preposterous ? you 'd think if van damme was serious about his `` acting '' career he would have attempted to remedy this flaw . i mean , it 's not like his acting roles are all that challenging but it would be nice if he was even partially believable in his roles ... why does van damme always have to show his bare rear-end so much ? does he think women are watching his silly movies ? you 'd think someone would realize that mostly men watch action films and the majority of men have no desire to see his naked backside so why show it ? ... is it me or does van damme need a good hair stylist ? his hair is especially stupid in cyborg . he looks like he should be in the cast for `` revenge of the nerds '' ... speaking of style , was it van damme himself who invented that stupid tucked in shirt with pleated dockers pulled up way too high over the waist with a snazzy belt 80 's look ? if so , for this deed alone he should be reprimanded ... why was van damme such a huge action hero ? he is so friggin ' short that if you saw him in line behind you at a convenience store i do n't think he would look all that intimidating . at least steven seagal is tall and tough looking although van damme is definitely in better shape . you never see seagal showing his muscles ... . lastly , even though i can laugh about van damme i am definitely a fan . that being said , i wonder if any of his other fans share my sentiments about the producers , directors and just about everyone else involved with most of his many films . i think they should be ashamed of the way they have done their work . van damme has alot of heart , maybe not so much as stallone , but more heart than most action heroes like shwarzenegger , etc . the people involved with most of van damme films have truly done a disservice to him and to action film fans everywhere . they should have taken pride in their work . it 's not like they were n't paid handsomely for their services