santana playing the blues ? ? c'mon . i have my doubts as to santana ' music for quiet a long time- it seems that he loves his place and role as a rock icon too much and forgot to do music . let me be more specific- i never liked his salsa last records and thought that this is no music . for a guitar player who invented new ideas and streams in the rock guitar-playing world , these records were an insult- no less . i am really sure that santana himself admits- deep down in his heart- that he looks for better music . it can be that these guilt feelings brought him to `` create '' this dvd . well , if i am right in my analysis , he did wrong in his music , again . nothing connects santana to the blues and he will not convince ( at least me ) that he was raised on the knees of the blues . c'mon , forty years of career and now he revels that he is rooted in the blues ? ? sorry , i do n't buy it . now , as santana is not a blues guitar player , and never was- this dvd can not be good and there are a lot of reasons for it : santana ' playing the blues is loud and vulgar while all other three guitar players ( bobby parker , clarence `` gatemouth '' brown and buddy guy ) have a small and unique sound , santana ' technique ( which was always amazing ) covers a lack of touch and feeling while all three base their playing on feeling , emotion and the right sound- santana , on the other hand , covers his disadvantages in playing the blues with all lot of notes . now , if you want to purchase good blues guitar playing dvd go for each of the three ( meaning : bobby parker , clarence `` gatemouth '' brown and buddy guy ) for their own records . if you like santana ( past or present ) go for his own but , do n't mix between them as santana did . one more thing- santana relates to jeff beck in his words added to this dvd and i agree that this is a good example- anyone who wants to understand the meaning of the blues and rock/blues guitar should address to jeff beck , not to santana whom we still expect , after so many years , to create real music .