dark , morbid and disturbing , but lacking that special something that made the original great . `` pet sematary two '' was directed by the same mary lambert who directed the original `` pet sematary '' and the similarities in style are clearly evident between the two movies . once again , lambert paints a disturbingly dark and morbid picture in part two of this horror movie series . basically , the plot centers around a young boy played by edward furlong who is absolutely devastated by his mother 's grisly demise ... naturally , he would do anything to get his mother back and eventually does . the basic premise behind this movie appears to be that the evil force behind the pet sematary is calling upon furlong 's character to resort to the pet sematary to bring back his mother along with some incredible evil as well . overall , the movie works a good bit like the original and while it is certainly an entertaining enough movie for horror movie fans , the sequel is not nearly as effective as the original . one strong area that the original `` pet sematary '' had was the very interesting character of jud played very well by fred gwynne ... jud 's character carries the momentum of each scene in the original and basically made `` pet sematary '' work , but we do n't have that strong character presence to make the wheels go round in this sequel , therefore the movie comes across flat . what we do have in this sequel is an average horror movie that attempts to cash in on the success of the original classic . perhaps , the characters in `` pet sematary ii '' are just weak in general ( no disrespect to clancy brown or anthony edwards ) , but something is missing here in part two of this series despite the similarities in the dark and disturbing atmosphere painted so meticulously by lambert . quite frankly , i did not like the casting of edward furlong as the main character to begin with ... i do n't know but it just left a bad taste in my mouth about this movie ... he 's such an uncharasmatic dork and his hard to sympathize with , notwithstanding the obvious limitations of his acting abilities . the bottom line is that due to the lack of quality characters present in `` pet sematary two '' , the sequel just is n't near as compelling as the original . because `` pet sematary two '' is n't anywhere near as good , nor as emotionally compelling as the original classic . indeed , one is left to wonder if a sequel was a smart move here . still , with that being said , `` pet sematary two '' is not a terrible movie and so i give it two stars which means it 's just fair or average , but i would be remiss if i did not say that i 've certainly seen a lot worse ... just check out some of my other reviews and see what i mean .