but we can be any self we want , ca n't we ? the governess was , by far , a very pitiful film . i do not use this word loosely , as it honestly was a poor excuse for a movie . i finished watching this feature with only one word on my mind ... `` why '' ? honestly , you could use this question at the end of every scene of this film and it would seem like it fit . there were so many inconsistencies that lead to a lack of development ( both in the story and in the characters ) which ultimately lead to a very confusing film with actors walking through the motions instead of giving any explanation . scenes would occur with no foreshadowing , understanding , or drive to a complete ending . it was as if i was watching several different ideas thrown together without really any resolution . actors were setting events in motion that did not seem to fit their character or really were resolved . this was my biggest issue with this film . the complete and utter lack of structure to this film brought all specks of foundation crumbling down with a genuine `` ripple-effect '' being felt throughout the rest of the film as a result . let me explain myself further on this lack of consistency throughout the film . i would liken this film to a bowl of lumpy oatmeal that had a zebra in it . it made no sense nor was there any logic behind it all . minnie driver was the worst culprit of this deed . her character 's lines were drawn very fuzzy and nearly transparent . she would do things like talk about sex all the time with her sister , but yet she seemed very open to sexual experiences all the time . she has her first moment of passion in this film , and there is no pain or excitement . it nonchalantly happens , and this just did n't seem to fit the original conversation that we had at the beginning of the film with rosina and her sister . she is a very intelligent woman that accidentally finds a solution to wilkinson 's problem and suddenly wants full rights to his invention ? that was confusing and completely random . is it not obvious to anyone else that her teaching methods were non-existent . anyone in their right mind could see that she was n't teaching cavendish 's daughter anything . the sudden and awkward relationship that randomly forms between driver and jonathan rhys-meyers nearly had me laughing out loud . i thought maybe i had discovered some magic in this film as rhys-meyers literally `` poofed '' into the scene and suddenly caused some unneeded drama . it felt that the director ( or writer ) was thinking that the original story was going nowhere fast , so by adding this random character we may be able to advance the plot a bit ( or confuse the lesser film enthusiasts ) . well , it did n't fool me , i saw that he was nearly a `` cut-and-paste '' character used to strengthen an already weakened story . do n't get me started on the ending , which had no consistency to the rest of the story . again using the `` cut-and-paste '' method , the writer of this film needed a way to just end the story , and this was the only solution they could arrive to . it is sad when actors are forced to do things out of character ... but i guess that is the name of the game in hollywood . fix until completely broken , or at least salvageable . the remainder of the story was unexciting dribble . there were maybe a handful of neat cinematography moments where you could see that there was one sliver of creativity trying to peak through coupled with some bars of decent , period piece music , but nothing to write to grandma about . more family structure with some stronger introductions could have strengthened this film a bit more , but as i stated before , by leaving open-ended scenes just lying around the entire film , you will experience a crack in your foundation . what may seem like a sturdy story , will eventually wear down over time , and by the end of this film i felt that the house was crumbling down on top of me . wilkinson plays his normal self in this film , while driver apparently did not want to get naked , but everyone else had too ( i will have to see a doctor after those images were burned into my eyes ... eeewwww ) . also , she wore the same dress everyday . that was disgusting and i could smell her through the television . sex and dirty laundry . now there is a great film for you ! there just seemed to be some potential floating around here , but instead it was just rubbish . nothing was answered , questions seemed to fall like snow in alaska , and mediocrity seemed to reign supreme . overall , this could have been a decent film that combined the powerful themes of science and love together , but instead it was just pitiful . i can not stress enough the disturbing fact that characters were going through motions without any sort of pre-explanation . i do n't need cinematic moments handed to me like a child , but something should have been done to build a foundation . just remember the oatmeal with a zebra analogy that i used . if you were as confused about that as i was , then you will completely understand the film the governess , while if you prefer zebras in your oatmeal ... then , maybe this film is for you ! grade : * out of ****