day of the suck francisco was right , this film is about as well-conceived as buttcrust . the review on the back of the dvd says `` jaw dropping , `` but the full quote probably reads `` jaw dropping ( because i was lulled to sleep like a baby ) '' . there is about 30 seconds of truly jaw dropping footage , in the zombie attack scenes , but these scenes only account for maybe 5 minutes of the movie . the rest of this film consists of the ear-bleeding whines and yawn-inducing infighting of the human characters , ill-conceived and extremely unlikable caricatures of a pseudo-cynical and extremely redundant `` evil side of human nature '' message that would be better left to jean renoir ( or even adam sandler considering the results here ) . i do n't watch zombie movies for the characters , especially characters so vapid and unengaging . it seemed like the script writer read a novice 's how to pamphlet and said `` yeah , it needs some conflict '' . if these characters were n't so constipated and bloated i 'd give them a chance . one amazon reviewer tries to justify all of the one-dimensional absurdity by crowning it with the weighty title of `` social commentary , '' but that 's just a mindless knee-jerk observation that fails to ascertain whether it was carried out sucessfully . it was n't . you 'd get more insight watching a kid frying ants with a magnifying glass . the critical ambitions of this movie are ill-fitting and embarassing , and ultimately just plain disappointing since they allot almost no time to showcase the director 's real talent , which is ( you guessed it ) the lovely undead . the rest is monotonous dreck . i do n't know why horror directors have so much insecurity about the worth of their strengths that they feel they need to shroud them in a poor man 's dramatic rags . all that aside , the ending is the worst anticlimatic cop-out in the history of horror movies . a horror movie that sucks for 3/4 of its duration needs a cool climax to redeem itself , but the cut-away at the end makes you wan na kick the director in the gonads . sorry , but anyone who calls this a classic is a friggin soundbite-repeating moron .