a weird movie this film is one of the worst i have seen . i really do n't know what other films sean reid has produced but this one was kind of bad . the film opens up by saying it 's based on true events , so you wonder is it based on sean reid 's young life trying to pursue acting . to me this film was pointless . it 's named redemption , redemption from what ? it shows christian , played by brian white , going through depressive pshycotic episodes trying to find his way in life . the only scenes i liked were between him and his father . the conversations between them were very meaningful with christian trying to get through to his father , which lets you in on his family history , and his father trying to help his son cope with life . christian is battling many demons ; his father not being a good example in his life , his mother not being there , his struggle to pursue acting , and trying to find love . this all leads to christian making poor decisions . he starts partying and getting in stupid fights . he starts to take a turn for the worse when he meets this actor who can get him a gig and starts using marijuana . one of his friends , the guy who plays marlon , acts like a total jerk and disrepects women and his girlfriend puts up with it . it was ridiculous . melique , another one of christian 's friends stops hanging with them when he sees that they are starting to make wrong decisions . realizing this , christian finds melique . melique tries to redeem christian from himself by having a serious heart to heart talk with him . you would think that since the movie is named `` redemption '' that christian at this point would turn his life around . he does find hope again and wants to start a new life with his girlfriend ( claire ) . it does n't last long when trent ( a foe of his ) spots him and beats him up . then the downward spiral begins again . christian starts getting high and starts having hallucinations . he has a mental breakdown and starts doing strange things . he think he sees trent and goes out in a rage with a knife in his hand running around town half naked . when the police officers ca n't get through to him he gets shot . overall this movie was bizarre and kind of a waste of time . some scenes did n't make sense and it was very overdramatic