batman : the animated series = bruce timm + paul dini + shirley walker yup , not to marginalize the other people who made the show great , but that 's basically what it boils down to . when i saw none of these people in the opening credits , i was concerned . the people who did make this movie , however , confirmed my fears by making an extremely mediocre film , if not just plain sucky . i mean seriously , this would n't even have passed as an interesting episode of the tv show , let a lone a film . in one of the extras , the director or someone says that he just wanted to make a `` fun '' film and that they finished the script in no time at all . guess what , it shows . that is except for the fun part , but the lack of thought and vision part is definitely apparent . the plot is extremely cliched and stupid . maybe if any of the 3 girls were interesting at all , it would 've been passable . however , we ended up with an extremely annoying , rebeling daddy 's girl who looks like a hale berry clone , a renee montoya clone , and some girl tied down to a jailed boyfriend . yeah , why should i give a crap about any of these chicks ? in the extras they said they did n't want to do something definitive with batwoman , but i call it laziness and lack of effort . if batwoman 's secret identity was one good character it might have worked , but instead we get three worthless ones . i was at least expecting some lesbian subtext to make things somewhat interesting after i heard the idea to bring batwoman back as a character in the comic was sparked by this movie . however , any subtext in this film was extremely minimal if even existent . i did like the fact that they continued the barbara/bruce text , but it was only in one short scene . i guess having batgirl and batwoman in the same movie would be too much for some reason i ca n't comprehend . the music to this movie is n't that great as everyone else said , especially compared to shirley walker 's beyond amazing score . however , i disagree with everyone who said that the animation was good . it looked like low-budget , digitally colored , corny crap to me . definitely no where even close to the amazing , noir-influced film making from the tv show . i was also a fan of penguin 's voice in the show , but here he 's played by the mad hatter 's voice actor instead . i do n't know if penguin 's voice acotr died or that he was just busy , but penguin just was n't the same this way . oever all , i ca n't find much to like in this film . i did find the inclusion of fan-service including batwoman 's costume a nice gesture , but definitely not enough to save this film . so yeah , only get this if you 're a completest . if you 're just starting to buy batman for all means get the tv box-sets instead . every episode is much more enjoyable than this half-baked movie