croaks you 'd think the director of the original japanese series could turn out a decent sequel . but nooooooo ... . instead , `` the grudge 2 '' is a detailed , shimmering example of why people loathe sequels , and how ( with rare exceptions like preplanned trilogies ) they are pretty much always bad . overused spooks , lackluster acting and a plotless plotline are only a few of the things wrong with this croaking horror . aubrey davis ( amber tamblyn ) learns that her sister karen ( sarah michelle gellar ) is seriously ill , and goes to japan to fetch her -- with horrifying results . karen 's last warning : `` do n't go in that house . '' other people are n't doing the same , since a trio of schoolgirls went into the house and are now being haunted by everyone 's least favorite croaking ghosts , kayako and toshio . and an american family in chicago is being slowly destroyed by visions of the ghosts , which have somehow transferred out of japan and into the united states . aubrey and a reporter investigate the odd circumstances of karen 's madness and demise , going to the abandoned house that karen tried to burn down . as the malevolent ghosts close in on them , aubrey discovers the secret past that has turned kayako into an evil force that can not be stopped ... ghosts , ghosts , everywhere , and not one of them is actually scary . apparently takashi shimizu assumed that the more apparitions you put in a movie , the scarier it becomes . sadly , it does n't work that way -- kayako and toshio pop up for a cheap care every few minutes , and when they are n't around , other ghosts are popping up for no good reason . all those ghosts are mainly there to prop up a thin-as-paper storyline , with flaccid dialogue and a few cursory nods to the previous film . the schoolgirl storyline is completely disposable , and the chicago one is a transparent set up for the inevitable ( and dreaded ) `` grudge 3 , '' during which the horror rules get recklessly broken . so only a third of the movie has any interesting content -- usually a few minutes of exposition about kayako . it 's rather sad that gellar is the ruling force here , and she 's only in it for a few minutes total . she 's certainly more charismatic than the tamblyn , who seems to be sleepwalking through her role . ohga tanaka and takako fuji provide some scares as the ghosts , even misused , but the rest of the cast is simply going through the motions of really tepid acting . `` grudge '' had its flaws , but it was a horror masterpiece compared to its disastrously pointless sequel -- it 's all about piling as many ghostly appearances as possible into three thin plots . cinematically , this is a curse