data is a bad boy . worf has a pimple . grrr . when we last left the next generation crew , picard saved data in an errol flynn kind of way against the queen borg . star trek year : 2375 . we sure are missing the original star trek enterprise crew of kirk , spock , mccoy , etc by now . worf who is now assisting deep space nine boards the enterprise for a visit . picard ( patrick stewart ) certainly has his hands full tonight with an elegant dinner for regent cuzar . laforge ( levar burton ) has an urgent message for picard at the same time and picard is trying to memorize the foreign language for greeting regent cuzar so as not to insult the regent . admiral doughtery ( anthony zerbe ) would like to tell picard that data ( brent spiner ) has been a naughty robot and will not obey starfleet protocol . he is holding the brair patch hostage , which is a population of 600 people . ru'afo ( f. murray abraham ) is the son'a ship captain . he enjoys partaking in a quick facial surgery procedure . ( do n't we all wish we could ) . ru'afo informs picard , data has turned dangerously violent and has done damage to the ship . data must be destroyed . picard has 12 hours to save data or picard will terminate the android himself . also in the cast : jonathan frakes , gates mcfadden , marina sirtis , donna murphy , gregg henry , michael horton , mckenzie westmore ( nbc serial , passions ) is credited as a ba'ku villager . does the brair patch have cabbage patch dolls too ? sorry i coud n't resist . easter egg : disc 2 special features , click star trek universe , click down to main menu , but do not press . use `` right '' button instead . middle octagon will turn blue . press `` enter '' . tom morello will talk on location about playing `` sona '' . disc 2 also includes 6 deleted scenes and the alternate ending . one deleted scene includes max grodench playing a trill ensign . he was `` rom '' in star trek : deep space nine tv series ( 1993-1999 ) . the next voyage is star trek : nemesis ( 2002 ) update : j.j. abrams and damon lindelof ( abc network 's lost ) will produce and direct star trek xi . rumor is it will be a prequel about young james t. kirk in the starfleet academy and about spock . it will be released xmas 2008 .