aaron kwok gives a great performance in this silly cop movie . kwok is on fire in this movie with maybe his best physical performance ever . he looks like a pop star but his acting is actually very good . unfortunately , his performance is completely wasted in a movie this bad . i wo n't explain the story , it is cops vs. drug dealers . there is a beautiful fighting female , good car chases , big name stars , and good fights . how did this movie go wrong ? well , stanley tong is a decent director , but he is a stuntman , screen fighter , and martial arts choreographer at heart . he tries to make this an american movie but he disregards everything that gives feeling to movies . i cracked a smile more than a few times but this is the most mindless modern day film i have seen in a long time . usually , i am able to get past all of this since i am a sucker for good fight scenes , and this movie does have a few . highlights to watch for are ken lo vs. marc dacoscos and dacoscos vs. everyone in the final fight . the thing that ruins this movie is that the real final fight never finishes , but instead it moves on to a totally ridiculous fight to finish off the movie . 'cradle to the grave ' has a better end fight ! stanley tong must have been out of his mind because in the finale , coolio ends up as the main opponent . not ken lo who is the leg fighter that faces jackie chan at the end of 'drunken master 2 ' , and not marc dacoscos who is one of the very best modern day martial arts actors , but coolio . i honestly thought this was a good cheesy movie , but the final fight sequence is just horrible . stanley tong comes up with a great idea having the actors fighting on a huge piece of glass hundreds of feet in the air and they have to keep their balance while they fight . it is just too bad coolio had to ruin it . 2.5/5 dvd from dimension home video has good sound and picture quality . no special features except the outtakes in the credits which was a much more satisfying end to the movie .