dry comedy for people who do n't like dry comedy this show deserved to get cancelled , and there 's a very simple reason . this is supposedly dry , subtle comedy for people who do n't usually like dry , subtle comedy . it 's a show that was presented to the fox audience , an audeince that normally likes the most inane , low-brow kind of humor , that does n't know what dry comedy is and would fall for a pitiful imitation of it . meanwhile , to people who actually appreciate subtlety and dry humor , the so-called comedy in the show is unbelievably obvious and predictable . every time a line is spoken on that show that is supposed to be a joke , it 's clear how forced and contrived it is , how hard the creators of this show are trying to fake dry humor , something they clearly do n't understand . it 's embarrassing for someone with appreciation for humor to watch , because the jokes are so uninspired and fall so flat . it 's just an awkward mess . but those are n't the people this show is targeted at . it 's targeted at that fox audience who has never even seen dry humor before , and so anything even resembling it is new and amazing to them . they think this show is brilliant because it 's a little smarter than mad tv , or at least thinks it is . and since those are the people who are seeing the show , you hear all these people raving about how brilliant it is . if the show were on hbo or some other network , exposed to a different kind of audience , you would hear a lot more negative response to it from people who like dry comedy that actually works . so why did this show get cancelled , when so many people think it 's so amazing ? if it 's so great , people would have actually watched it , right ? so where were the ratings ? the fact is , the people who love this show are a very vocal minority . the audience for dry humor did n't watch this show because it 's not funny . but the audience who was fooled by this show , as vocal as they are , was just too small : they were people who were encountering something other than inanity for the first time in their lives and thought it would make them look smart to pretend to like it . this is not one of those shows that was cancelled because it was too smart for tv , as its apologists claim . no , it simply was a completely unfunny failure that was only impressive to people who have never heard anything but fart jokes