message received , invitation declined a run-of-the-mill hired gun oater told from the hired gun 's point of view . yul brynner stars in invitation to a gunfighter , a western with a conscience from 1964 , a bad time for westerns made in the lower 48 . brynner plays jules gaspard d'estaing ( jewel , for short , ) a silk-shirted top-notch gun for hire who 's enlisted by a small southwestern town to shoot george segal , a young man returning from the civil war who , much to town owner and chief psychopath pat hingle 's horror and disgust , fought for the confederacy . segal returns to town bereft of farm , stolen -- - er , claimed and sold by hingle while he was gone - and sweetheart janice rule , a new england lass who married a one-armed piano player out of pity . after segal tries to take back his farm , rather forcefully and impulsively , hingle 's hatred for all things southern boils over and he hires one of the best guns in the lawless west . at some point in the movie brynner 's character observes that this cowed frontier town is filled with hens ( civil war widows ) and capons ( injured vets of that war . ) it can be ruled by anyone with enough moxie to take it over , and hence we 're given the reason why hingle 's character is named brewster - well , it rhymes with rooster , anyway , and his penchant for quoting and paraphrasing passages from the bible is hollywood 's shorthand way of telling us he 's either a fraud or criminally demented . in any event , the slave system segal may ( underline and italicize the word `may ' ) have been fighting to protect and defend is clumsily contrasted with the hingle-led town 's treatment of women and resident mexicans . neither can vote in town councils , the mexicans ca n't buy ammunition to kill game to feed their families , et cetera , et cetera , et cetera . which reminds me , brynner ai n't half-bad as the suave and conflicted gun slinger . it probably goes without saying that there was only one man , recently returned from the war , who treated the resident mexicans with any respect . that fact does n't escape brynner 's attention , anyway , and it sets up the big conflict - does a hired gun let outside factors interfere with his contract to kill ? invitation to a gunfighter would have been a whole lot better if it had n't tried so hard to prove the town 's moral hypocrisy , if it had n't spent so much time developing a sticky romantic quadrangle between rule , brynner , segal , and the one-armed man , and especially if it had n't loaded a simple story with so much `message . ' westerns , and action movies in general , work best when the connection between motivation and action is simple and direct . in itag that connection is hopelessly , and needlessly , tangled . brynner has a lithe intensity that rises above the material and almost , but not quite , carries this movie along with him .