wet willis ' for everyone ! welcome to a new style of reviews . for those of you who have been following my career , my comments on the films that i have seen have been lengthy , verbose , and at times , just plain boring . today marks a day of change . i am finding myself with less time , energy , and dedication to the cause , so i am changing . perhaps i will fall to the wayside , or pick up new fans - but for me , it is still all about the cinema . war , really people , what is it good for ? apparently , to those involved with the creation of the film `` hart 's war '' , absolutely nothing - do you need me to say it again ? to be short and sweet , pretty-boy farrell gets caught by nazi 's , tells a dirty secret , and somehow gets put in the posh-of-the-posh pow containment camps this side of germany . no brutality , no murder , no starvation - just simple catered meals and a freedom like no other . willis plays a colonel that somehow was captured and has named this base as his `` luxury '' suite . he is best friends with the nazi commander , while all the time planning the big escape . did i hint towards `` the great escape '' - please do n't think the same thoughts with this film . what makes `` hart 's war '' a bit more random than you typical war film is that the bigotry , hatred , and racism comes from not the nazis , but the american soldiers . it comes in the form of terrance howard . one time racism turns its dirty head , people look the other way - but the second time , it takes us into a melodramatic , off-the-beaten-path courtroom drama that can be viewed in an assortment of regular films . it sparks nothing new , nor anything of interest . continually , we wait for howard , or willis , to shout that cult-like phrase , `` you ca n't handle the truth '' , and it nearly happens , when willis reveals his wild card and changes the course of the war forever . how bland . `` hart 's war '' fails because it involves too many elements and not enough time , or maybe , too many elements and too long of time . instead of sticking with a war story , we are bludgeoned with another story of racism , another story of respect , another story of lies , and jumbled between it all a story about escape . it is too much for one film to handle , and as our characters become less and less dimensional , as does the film . willis is willis . if you have seen any of his work this decade , you have seen his character in this film . farrell remains shaved and pretty-boy throughout the film , continually denouncing the authenticity , which was already faulted by the fact that it seemed like nobody was against anyone in this camp . i think that is what struck me as odd , the layout of the camp . why were the russians treated worse than the americans ? did they not have a bruce willis of their own ? questions upon questions continue to pile until we think we have had enough then another world opens in the final act giving us another reason to yell , `` oh brother ! '' . the ending lacks consistency , as we are left with no resolutions , no finale , and no moment of zen . it is perfect for you willis nay-slayers out there , but for the rest of us , we are left with a symbolic ending that will bring a tear to the women , and the rest of us demanding our money back . this film contained very little action , very little suspense , and very little answers to bigger underlining questions . it was a hastily put together film that boasted big names , but bigger downfalls . for two hours i was plummeted into everything hollywood could think of to throw into a film . while i believe it had potential , what happened in the end is that the director could not control the momentum . this is strange , because i loved `` fallen '' so very much . `` hart 's war '' did start strong , in my eyes , with some decent cinematography ( i enjoyed the opening snow scene ) , but fell of the face of the earth by the end of the first hour . so , again my friends , i must ask - what is war good for ? to my reply ... absolutely nothing . i can not suggest this film to friends or family . poor acting , too many plot points , and an unresolved ending makes me give `` hart 's war '' a ( wait for it ... ) blah