a film that is torture to watch ! i was expecting a bit more from this movie , but i guess if i had really thought about it , anything starring joan crawford at this point in her life , and the always rebellious/troubled/angry john garfield , could not have risen above what the film ended up being . my dislikes : the music ; often way too loud , way too much , very very annoying to me . had to continually turn down the volume when the film went musical , which was much too often . joan 's character : well , she was middle aged , married , downing glass after glass of alcoholic beverages constantly , a chain smoker ; no decent man would be attracted to that sort of woman . well , john garfield was n't a decent man . i have yet to see a john garfield role i liked ... he always portrays characters who are angry and rebellious , self centered , going against life the wrong way . i did n't like him , i did n't like joan , and so i did n't really care about them and ultimately the point of the movie . they had one of those uncomprehendable romances where seeminly they are deeply in love , yet they do n't show it or speak it and you definitely do n't feel it . at the end , joan was just over the top as a drama queen and by this time i was so fed up with this whole film i just kept saying , `` okay joan , we know you are going to take your final swim so please just get on with it already so we can be finished with this boring and aggravating movie ! '' but no , she had to walk at least 2 miles down the beach in her evening gown and high heels , and weep and weep , and make faces , and clutch her hair in despair , and on and on she went and all the while the loud music is playing out her `` sorrow and pain '' ! what a relief when it was finally over ! there are some films that leave me feeling very upset and agitated , and this was definitely one of them . what helped me get over it was to read some of the great reviews here on amazon ... some were so funny because they were so true about the stupidity of this movie that i laughed and laughed ! laughter is indeed a great healer ! i also did not go for the cynical piano player friend and his constant stream of one liners . cynical humor is n't humor and it is n't funny ; it 's pathetic and sad . i am sure die hard joan and john fans will always love this film , but all others should be able to see it for what it really is