your kids will probably be bored i realize that this batch of films is aimed at older teenagers and college kids , not adults over the age of 25 . however , you can probably do much better picking out films your kids will watch than this collection . that 's not to say that there are n't some great yet silly films in the batch , because there are . next i describe each film in descending order of quality . uhf ( 1989 ) - this is a great film starring weird al yankovic as a directionless young man whose uncle gives him a rundown tv station to manage . his unconventional programming turns things around for himself and the station . cooley high ( 1975 ) - this is a great film for all ages , and was the basis for the sitcom `` what 's happening '' , although it only faintly resembles it . it is set in south-side chicago in the mid 60 's , and concerns a group of high school friends that have numerous comic encounters , but there is also some tragedy involved in the plot . bill & ted 's excellent adventure ( 1989 ) - the first one was very funny and fresh , and keanu reeves will always be ted as far as i 'm concerned , even if he winds up doing shakespeare at some point . the plot concerns two slackers who are about to fail history that are given some help from a time traveller from the future . the only problem is that it is so steeped in 80 's pop culture that your kids may not get half the jokes . bill & ted 's bogus journey ( 1991 ) - the second one is still funny , it just seems to try harder and not get quite the same comic effect as the first . the rest of the movies are under the national lampoon label . dorm daze ( 2003 ) - one of national lampoon 's better college farce movies , with the plot set up by a series of silly misunderstandings . the closest thing you 're going to get to `` animal house '' 25 years after the fact . going the distance ( 2004 ) - a canadian version of roadtrip . this movie was better than i expected , with a lot of good interaction between the main characters , but still not that great even for a teen farce . class reunion ( 1982 ) - this movie had all the ingredients to be funny , but it just bored me , even in 1982 . top that off with all of the 80 's and even 70 's pop culture references , and i do n't think it would do much for today 's kids . the last three movies are just awful - `` movie madness '' , `` gold diggers '' , and `` van wilder 2 : the rise of taj '' . i wo n't even bother to describe them . when i say they 're bad , i 'm saying they are boring and completely unfunny . if you force your kids to sit through these three films as part of their summer break , they 'll be looking forward to going back to school . the end result is you have three good to excellent films that are all older movies , four mediocre to ok films , and three horrible movies . i think you can do much better at entertaining your older teenagers/college kids than this collection