not just bad bad for you ! so sugary sweet it makes you sick to your stomach . on the surface maid in manhattan it seems like a light romantic comedy with a predictable and sweet love story . however the numerous racist and sexist stereotypes throughout the undertones of this cinderella tale will make any viewer of color extremely bitter . better have a couple of barf bags around while watching this movie . you 're gon na need them . jennifer lopez is a maid in a four-star downtown manhattan hotel . ( stereotype # 1 about latinas ) she dreams of becoming a hotel manager ( stereotype # 2 about latinas- all work in service jobs ) . a single mother ( stereotype # 3 ) she struggles to work during the day and take care of her 10-year-old son and is supported by her mother ( stereotype # 4 ) who works in a rundown spanish restaurant uptown ( stereotype # 5 ) while cleaning the room of a rich british woman , she decides to try on some of her clothes . conveniently , a rich senate candidate comes to the room and mistakes her for the hotel guest . he 's smitten by her charm and her looks . she 's attracted to his loot . so to bag the rich guy she and her friends ( also minority stereotypes ) go along with the ruse and more supposedly humorous hijinks ensue . the flimsy story disappears and the movie slowly changes from a vehichle for jennifer lopez , actress into a vanity project for j . lo , superstar . we get numerous shots of her walking around the city in designer clothes , eating at fancy restaurants and trying too hard to look hot while courting a bored senate candidate . the movie comes to a climax when the ruse is revealed . she and her friends at the hotel are fired and her dreams of becoming a hotel manager are crushed . but wait-prince charming ( tm ) is riding down in his white limo to save her . he 's had such a wonderful time with her that he 's fallen in love ( tm ) . he tries to talk to her in the street , but she gives him some spiel about not knowing who she was when she was a maid and now caring about her . this leads to him seeking her out at her new job . while she 's working at another hotel , where he 's conveniently he 's holding a press conference , he finds her and professes undying love for her . they kiss and we get a montage of pictures showing them living happily ever set to j.lo 's painful butchering of diana ross ' classic `` i 'm coming out . '' she 's married to the senator , getting the management job at the hotel and then one of her saying they 're still married a year later . excuse me i have to go puke . ( i also have to reorder the barf bags ; no telling when i 'm going to need them for the next romantic comedy ) words ca n't describe how much i hate this movie . it 's an insult to women and minorities . maid in manhattan insidiously hides numerous racist and sexist messages under a beautiful front of pretty actors , lavish locations and luxury goods . the movie secretly tells women of color they ca n't find success without those essentials for success : expensive designer clothes , perfect make-up , beautiful hair and a rich white man to save them . worse , it tells women to lie and manipulate to get what they want . because we all know working hard takes way too much time from shopping . movies like this are n't bad ; they 're bad for you . watch too many movies like these and you 'll get your mind warped . it seems like the producers were trying to make a `` pretty woman '' type movie for j.lo but they did n't understand the execution of j.f . lawton 's brilliant concept . in an attempt to copy pretty woman , maid in manhattan tries to update the fairy tale by just using minority characters in most of the roles and fails miserably . there was a lot more under the surface of the richard gere/julia roberts vehichle than most people understand . pretty woman was n't an update of a fairytale it was a satire poking fun at the fairy tale . lawton was making fun of all the fairy tale stereotypes by using l.a 's downtrodden as the characters in the story . he was making the comment that to get to happily ever after both the man and the woman have to learn to value each other as equals . the acting here is horrible . no , scratch that it 's wretched . jennifer lopez is terrible . terrible singing , terrible acting and she did n't look too hot in all those designer clothes either . she has no chemistry with ralph finnes and adds no dimension whatsoever to her character . throughout the movie she 's just j.lo superstar playing dress up . after seeing this movie and enough i can tell you jennifer lopez 's acting career is in serious trouble . she 's gone from an actress who showed tremendous potential selena , out of sight , and anaconda to an egotistical over-the-top ham with no presence and no personality . ralph finnes is horribly miscast in the role of the senate candidate . i could n't believe he was from new york with that british accent that kept popping up in every scene . an actor of his caliber deserves better than this syrupy slop . bob hoskins must need some rent money because a fine actor like him deserves better than this . natasha richardson and amy sedaris chew on scenery while waiting for their paychecks to clear . tyler posey ( parker posey 's son ) is the only actor to give a good performance here . i 'd love to see more of him in the future . please , please if you value your daughter 's self-esteem do not let them watch this movie ! get them the wonderful bend it like beckham , akeelah and the bee , and disney 's mulan . the older crowds can get muriel 's wedding , j.f . lawton 's pretty woman or his hilarious cannibal women in the avocado jungle of death .