*yawn* i bought this dvd because it features alan rickman . i also purchased it because of someone else 's amazon review ( they sounded like they really knew what they were talking about ) . i am glad i bought it used , because if it were new , i would feel that i 'd been cheated . the movie was about as suspenseful as waiting in the doctor 's office . there was no sense of suspense , and i was about as thrilled and chilled as a lukewarm cup of tea ( mind you , i 'm not the type who requires non-stop action and special effects to be happy ) . the dialogue throughout was tedious and trite ; the scriptwriter should be on the unemployment line , as well as the director and the editor . the plot was , in some respects , totally illogical , and at other times nonsensical . even previous scenes do n't tie in neatly enough at the end . the plot is entirely unconvincing and implausible . the choices the characters make - whether restless , bored , frustrated - do n't tie in the the normal patterns of logic and suck all realism away from the film ( like a greedy , unwashed vampire ) . the movie features a wealthy , bored couple . i was also bored . but i 'm not wealthy . however ! all the actors did their best within the limitations of this film . polly walker was very convincing as a sensitive , but hypercritical wife . in fact , i 'd say she provided the best performance , and her character was the most three-dimensional and human . they should have provided more time to make the audience more sympathetic to her character . norman reedus was fairly genuine as the young man , although he seemed more creepy and psychotic than attractive . he failed to grab my empathy . which makes the plot of the movie more implausible ... that a jaded , wealthy couple would have allowed him into their environment . alan rickman did his usual subtle work , but it was so subtle that i thought they might have not let him have his morning coffee before filming . his attempt at an american accent did not fly too well . later in the movie , however , he becomes much more interesting . the end lacked passion and was not surprising at all ; it was entirely predictable . for rickmanistas , yes , you get to see alan naked . so , just fast forward to the end of the movie and you will be happy . i have always admired alan rickman - i 'm a big fan - but he would have been better in a more skillfully scripted & directed film . so , i give it two stars . *yawn