poor adaptation as said by other reviewers , a lot of what was in the original story was changed , and the film was updated to the time period where it was . the boys are american , from a military school , and talk about fear of the russians snatching them up and drafting them for their athletic teams . the choice of making them from a military school may have been a poor choice - it may have hurt the belief of the transition from normal boys to animals . i do n't want to sound like i 'm stereotyping people in the military , but people in general already think there 's a thin line between military experience in matters of war and the feelings of a wild animal . basically , i think the biggest problem with this film is that the storytelling is lost . you do n't feel like there 's a transition to barbarism like you did in the book and the 1963 film . for example , during the bonfire sequence jack is shouting out directions : `` ok , you be the pig , we 'll be the hunters , '' and everyone chases the selected kid around the fire . ( not actually hurting him , mind you , just chasing him ) that 's not chaos nor barbarism , that 's an organized celebration . it 's about as uncivilized as a frathouse orientation . the director tries to play this scene out like it 's a terrible thing , but it just does n't come across that way . i might also add that this shares a similar problem with another modern adaptation , that being the john hurt `` 1984 . '' that film , if i recall correctly , did n't have a single `` big brother is watching you . '' likewise , this film does n't have a single , `` kill the pig , spill her blood ! '' that 's right , the most famous line from the book is not even in this movie . actually , a kid in one scene says quietly , `` we killed a pig . '' that 's about it . this leaves out an important part in the transition of the children from civilization to animal-like behavior . the fact the boys relished in the killing of a wild animal , chanting and screaming , `` kill the pig ! slit her throat ! spill her blood ! '' was one of the most poignant moments of the book and 1963 film , and is one of the most recognizable literary quotes next to `` tell me about the rabbits , george . '' on a final note , the character of piggy is ruined in this film . danuel pipoly was terrible in the role , and sounds like he was plucked from an elementary school play . i do n't wan na give too much away , but i was happy when `` something something '' happened to him . that sounds mean but it 's true , and it 's a very bad thing in a film like this . this film could have been good , but it fails on all levels . the transition from schoolboys to animalistic roots is unbelievable , making the whole point of the story lost on the audience . the best part of the whole thing to me was that marine at the end , and he 's in about ten seconds of film time . i hate comparing it to the 1963 film version so much , but i would really suggest people see that instead . avoid this unless you can catch it on cable and watch at your own discretion