do n't believe it every time they say `` director 's cut '' this is michael ( last of the mohicans , heat , the insider ) mann 's far superior , first film adaptation of thomas harris ' red dragon . it 's superb . creepy , tense , edgy , slick when you do n't expect to be , and genuinely even-handed about the story 's anti-hero will graham and the supposed monster francis dolarhyde ( portrayed as no less a human than the cops who pursue him ) , manhunter is a artfully crafted thriller that stands apart from the other `` hannibal the cannibal '' films . i also far prefer brian cox as lektor , he gets under your skin without making an incision , while anthony hopkins splattered the screen with patent medecine ookiness . that said ... . i was very disappointed when i rented this particular set . the second , `` director 's cut '' version is clearly a pre-release work print , with lower grade titles and dubbing , and a final scene of graham visiting near-victim family # 3 that is just terrible . the first disc is the release version , and though it restores a few scenes which were snipped from the vhs cut , a quick line from the scene in which graham figures out how dolarhyde is picking his victims is `` missing . '' ( `` as a child my heart bleeds for him ... as an adult ... slaughters whole families for selfish , trivial ends . ... are you uncomfortable with this kind of understanding ? '' ) whether it really needs to be in the scene is arguable . mann may 've removed it from the final version for good reasons . he sneers at his friend and former colleague , crawford . alienates him . it 's a false climax in a scene when the real climax is the storeroom guard ( on the phone ) confirming graham 's breakthrough discovery about the mountain of forensic evidence . other than that , the first disc is superbly transferred . if you 've only seen this on tape , the clarity and color saturation of the original film will amaze you . save your pennies , buy the `` release version '' single disc release , and let canal/anchor bay learn that mis-labled `` director 's cuts '' just wo n't sell .