19th century incredibles there have been far too many sequels to too many original films that were much more stellar . `` the legend of zorro '' , unfortunately , is another . whereas the 1998 original was more along the lines of a blockbuster , this 2005 sequel has proven to be lackluster . antonio banderas , as alejandro de la vega , has taken his late father-in-law 's name , and is now more at ease in his role as a nobleman of mid-19th-century california . he is still donning the mask and making sojourns to help the oppressed and dispossessed of the region . but he now has a wife and child to consider and the tensions between the swashbuckler and his equally daring young wife , elena ( catherine zeta-jones ) mount when she begins to fear for the safety of their son , joaquin . as joaquin , adrian alonso reveals that the genes for the spunk and cunning of the de la vegas have not worn thin as he defies authority to help defeat the villians of the film . at intervals , the family become the 19th century 's precursor to the animated incredibles with the skills and technology available to them . as another reviewer noted , the story loses its credibility when elena and alejandro divorce due to her concerns for her son 's safety . this would have been extremely rare in the 19th century , and unheard of in a catholic country at that time . elena reunites with a former acquaintance she met during her years in spain , a french nobleman named armand ( a piercing-eyed , striking rufus sewell ) in whose house she and her son become guests , and whom elena finds to have sinister designs on california , not unlike the abductor she had believed to be her father for many years . the `` zorro '' franchise recycles tony amendola as a priest trying to teach students such as joaquin , whereas he had been a devious henchman to don rafael in the 1998 film , and lets us glimpse mary crosby , a quarter century after the height of her popularity , in a non-speaking role as a governor 's wife , reassuring us that there are no small roles , only small actors . while it has a few impressive moments , the script is a tired rehash of the original theme , and the outcome is predictable , literally hinging on the ability to get on the right track . young adrian alonso appears to have a bright future ahead of him , and i hope that antonio and catherine enjoyed their onscreen reunion . but generally , it simply does not have the sizzle of its 1998 predecessor , and there was a lot of time and money that could have been better spent