the character of martha dunstock rather than give another general review as others have kindly done , my review focuses on one aspect of the film , indeed one character , that of martha . martha dunstock is known throughout the film as martha dumptruck . even the film credits include the nickname `dumptruck ' besides the character 's surname ( evidently feeling the need to labour the point ) . portrayed as unattractive and pathetically grateful for any attention she is given , she unwittingly provides the slater character with information enabling him to murder a student . later , when the cult status of the `suicides ' ( that is , murdered students ) becomes apparent , martha attempts her own suicide by walking into the path of traffic . but her attempt is shown as a failure . at the end of the film martha is bruised and now disabled , in an electric wheelchair . ryder 's character , having finished her voyage of self-realisation , rejects the school prom night and instead invites martha to stay in with a video and popcorn . martha gratefully accepts and the closing scenes show ryder walking along the corridor while martha encircles her like a planet around the sun . the image of martha in her wheelchair , an object of pity for ryder and for the audience , signifies to us fears of being different , of not being beautiful , of not being loved and respected . martha is the person we are all frightened of becoming . she is given no means of solving her predicament by the film maker . and though some of us in the audience may be fat , or disabled , or both , we may yet still fear martha , and are invited to consider ryder 's protagonist 's journey of self discovery as our own , even is in physical and social reality , we are more like martha . for this reason , `heathers ' fails as an exploration of the `hell ' of high school ( a description often used by buffy/angel/ firefly 's joss whedon ) . those in the audience not as thin and complying with western standards of `beauty ' as the protagonists ( probably the majority of us ) ultimately may find the so-called subversion of cruel hierarchy in this film just that little too shallow , leaving a bitter after-taste . the way `fat ' people are portrayed in films such as these unfortunately often reflect the predictable , transparent and absurd fixations of the film makers . sadly this is happening even today - in some ways it has gotten even worse since the western world decided to wage a 'war on fat ' ( to quote paul campos ) - and even at best it is lazy film-making .