deceptive title . two hours wasted when i could have had a root canal . the title of this movie is a tad deceptive- it and the soundtrack are the only thing disco related to this soap opera of a movie that carries a script worthy of a `` sex and the city '' episode . there are some , albeit very few , interesting plot twists . but basically this movie is mostly worthy of a late night movie made by and for cinemax . pity too . i 'm a huge chloe sevigny fan ( and not for `` brown bunny '' reasons ) , but her talent is minimally utilized , as is that of her co-stars . i realize this movie is largely about recent college grads and their pretentious entrance into the real world , with the disco night life as a back drop . but their trials and tribulations have little to do with the disco life itself . `` the club , '' the flick 's disco night life place to be , is merely what central perk was to the tv show friends- a gathering place to gossip about relatively juvenile adventures in love ( or reasonable facsimiles of ) , and their recent and up to now short durations in the working world . the minimal glances into `` the club '' itself is archetypal . were it not for an admittedly clever twist that explains a lot of the behavior of that disco 's employees earlier in the movie , the dialogue would be largely mundane , uninspired and testing of the viewers patience . the pay off is n't rewarding enough to rescue one from that experience . kate beckinsdale 's character is the stereotyical pain in the [ ... ] , nose in her friends ' business nuisance , and she plays that well . but an annoying character does not a good movie make . and for a movie of this title , the dance scenes are minimal in quantity and display . were it not for a friend letting me borrow his copy , i would n't have even dropped a single dollar to rent this flick . to be fair , the soundtrack is outstanding and solely keeps one following the movie 's events . but that 's hardly a reason to waste a couple hours watching this film 's paint dry . you could probably buy the soundtrack and have a more entertaining experience