beautifully filmed but for me a waste of time i recently saw brideshead revisted which i found completely wonderful . it was perhaps one of the most enjoyable and captivating films i 've ever immersed myself in . so , hungry for more evenlyn waugh ( whose books i read in a college course that was based exclusively on his work ) , i found `` a handful of dust '' at my library and figured i 'd give it a try . since the same author wrote it and the film was made by the same film people as brideshead i was filled with anticipation . my wife and i watched the first hour or so one night and while it had some good moments , and was certainly beautifully filmed , we were left cold by it . but we figured maybe after that the movie would develop . so we decided to continue it the following night . big mistake ! i only wish i could get back the time i wasted on it . while i do n't expect `` happy endings '' in a film ( brideshead certainly did n't have a `` happy ending '' ) the ending in this story left me in disbelief . since i did n't read this particular book by waugh and did n't know its ending , i was completely unprepared when the credits started rolling that the movie ended as it did . i was amazed by the stupidity of all i had just witnessed . i thought the story would have been much more interesting to see if tony would `` toughen up '' a little , transform and grow from the circumstances of his `` captivity '' rather than just look like a pathetic fool . perhaps the only redeeming aspect of the movie was watching brenda get what she deserved , still it was n't enough to justify watching this film . this film was basically a `` series of unfortunate events '' , with myself feeling most unfortunate of all . my wife to her credit fell asleep during the last part of the film and used the time more wisely than i did . compared with a film like brideshead revisited , where the characters really developed throughout the story and took on a tremendous amount of depth , this story , was full of one dimensional characters . dressing these characters up with beautiful costumes and scenery , well written music and excellent cinematography still did n't save the story from being like a bad `` twilight zone '' episode . if you look up my reviews , you will see that i do n't go out of my way to give bad reviews , but i was so annoyed by the time i wasted i felt i need to share this . of course i have just wasted more time in connection with this film by now writing this review , but i felt maybe i could spare someone else the wasted time .