what the fork is this ! ? okay , ignoring the obvious fact that pyun made this ... `` film '' ... out of the scum that stuck to his shoes after walking through the cutting rooms of 3 or 4 other really crappy movies - all involving ... cityscapes and leather , i 'd guess ... where was i ... oh yeah . and leaving aside the question of whether any of these actors has every really been good ( i love them all , you understand , but i also `` like '' starbucks coffee when kona is n't available - ie all the time except payday ) ... um , i feel that what sums this hunk of celery up is that the bad guys `` hide '' a huge bomb on the roof of the san francisco city hall , and then have a bunch of henchboobs `` guard '' it so 's hopper and pressly can get out of range . now , let 's recognize that city halls do n't tower over every other building in any city on earth ( this is reserved for the buildings of banks , insurance companies and general commercial piracy outfits ) . which means authorities would be able to see the spear carriers guarding the bomb and act accordingly . this you could see in any bad movie . perhaps not in the light of the feeling that some of the guards might wonder who would be guarding the bomb while it was their turn to get out of range , though . and how , really , do you sneak a bomb the size of an elephant onto the roof of a city hall . even pre 9/11 my imagination failed . but here 's where i had to look under the bottom of the disc 's case to see if somehow , something had fallen out of it . can i really believe ice-t would play a man stupid enough to attempt to take this roof by force ? no ladies and gents , a bad movie can be the most fun you 'll ever have with your clothes on , but this ticker goes too far , crosses a line ( trips over it actually ) , and stumbled into chaos . it was like having korean subtitles on under a cantonese audio track on a mime film of about ladan as told by swedish esperantists . and if you 're high enough to actually enjoy such a thing i 'd suggest something in a medium budget godzilla , instead