nothing indecent about this dull movie . tame and uninspired indecent proposal 's intriguing premise starts off with a provocative question : `` what would you do if i offered you a million dollars to spend the night with your wife ? '' in its attempt to explore sexuality , morals and ethics in america , the movie 's writers , producers , and director are too afraid of the controversial subject matter to provide a clear answer to the question it asks the audience . instead of being thought provoking film , the movie deteriorates into another predictable by the numbers forgettable commercial hollywood drama . if the studios gave me million dollars i could make a better film than this . indecent proposal follows a struggling california married couple drowning $ 50,000 in debt . out of work and desperate for cash , they go on a trip to vegas . browsing in a hotel store , diana runs into a billionaire john gage who has eyes on her . he offers to buy her a $ 5000 dress she has eyes on . diana says she ca n't be bought . gage sees a challenge . shawn sees a predictable plot twist . thinking nothing of her encounter she returns to the gambling tables with her husband . after winning $ 25,000 , halfway towards their goal , the couple heads back to their room planning to gamble more unaware of how hollywood casinos operate . predictably they lose all their winnings . both run into gage who asks diana to go to his table for luck . gage plays a high stakes game betting a million dollars on a crap table . after winning his high stakes bet , gage asks the couple to join him in his suite . there he proposes his indecent proposal : a night with the wife in exchange for a million dollars . the cash-strapped couple declines , but ponders taking him up on his offer on the way back to the hotel room . set your watch for what happens next . soon after the proposal the movie falls apart . gage buys her the expensive dress sweetens the pot . upon getting the dress the couple decides takes up gage on his offer . with his wife on the way , woody hangs out with a lawyer buddy . soon after talking to him , harrelson 's character gets second thoughts . he races for the roof to cancel the deal but is too late to stop the helicopter . how predictable . on the boat we watch diana getting ready . she and gage meet up and have dinner and drinks . we do n't know if they have relations ; the movie leaves that as a mystery . diana and her husband return to california to pay their debts . they soon find out john gage has bought out their mortgage . things start to get ridiculous from here . the manipulative gage only bought the house as part of a tactic to possess diana . he goes to her real estate job and tries to court her . i guess one night of her good stuff was n't good enough for her . harrelson 's character starts to become insecure , wanting graphic details of the encounter . his jealousies cause him to act irrational and angry like every other movie husband . feeling stressed out , diana leaves her husband for the super rich gage . yawn . losing his woman , harrelson takes a teaching job and starts working on his future . getting the divorce papers , he goes to an auction for animals . there he spends the one million dollars on a hippo to prove how much he loves her . he signs the divorce papers and she goes off with her billionaire man . he gets a change of heart when he realizes she still loves him . yawn . later in the car , gage and his driver talk about how they 've played this game over a dozen times . diana requests he stop the car . they break up and she gets on a bus . later she meets her ex-husband at the pier he proposed to her at and the movie comes to a clunky unsatisfying close . the performances are terrible . the entire cast is uninspired ; no one in this film makes an effort to bring any type of depth to their characters . woody harrelson is horribly miscast . i do n't believe him as an architecture expert . demi moore is wooden in the role of diana . she brings no dimension to the character at all . i feel no tension or stress from her even though she 's playing a woman conflicted by tremendous emotional and moral pressures . robert redford is charming and handsome , as john gage but the character seems like a one-dimensional caricature instead of a human being . look for billy bob thornton in a small role as a tourist . indecent proposal is n't indecent it 's just bland . it does n't take any of the risks in its exploration of its taboo subject matter . aside from some lukewarm sex scenes early on between the married couple , the movie is just another by the numbers hollywood drama pretending to be a thought provoking film . the provocative ideas about sexual morals and ethics advertised in its premise are just a selling point to trick customers into spending money on it . do n't let this movie con you out of your hard earned cash . instead of accepting this mediocre proposal on the video rack , i suggest you pick up summer of '42 , when harry met sally or love story .