complete butchering of a good story i had never seen queen of the damned until last night , when i had just finished anne rice 's novel queen of the damned . knowing i would soon be done with the novel , i was curious to see the movie so i went out to moviestop and picked up a cheap , used dvd copy , despite hearing that this movie was very bad . turns out , the word bad is an understatement . let me get to the point , there were several changes in the story , and i understand that some of this needs to be done in the movies for screen time reasons , etc . but i found that after reading the novel , while the basic premise of the story is the same as in the novel , pretty much everything that gave the novel 's plotline it 's depth and intrigue was removed from the story in the film adaptation , and this movie simply falls flat . i was shaking my head by the end of the movie with such disappointment that so much of the story was hacked away . the vampires in this movie are not portrayed with the amount of love & feeling that is intended by anne rice , akasha included . maharet , perhaps the foremost character in the novel , basically does n't show up until the end of the movie simply to take part in a disappointing final showdown . again , all of the backstory that should have been present here was missing . i wo n't spoil it for any of those who still plan to read the novel , but akasha 's motives for what she was planning to do were actually logical ( in her own evil and misguided way ) , but there was a reason for it that she saw as legitemate , where as in the movie it was simply `` everybody must die ! '' . period . that 's your motive for everything that the movie was building up to . i ca n't stress this enough - the depth of the book is gone in the movie . like i said , i understand that things need to be trimmed/skipped for the sake of screen time , etc. , but this movie was barely over 1 1/2 hours long , and so much of the plot development could still have been included here to give this movie the depth that it lacked . what 's wrong with adding even another 30-45 minutes of screen time to fill in the story and make it a 120 or 135 minute film ? heck , i sat in the theatres for all three lord of the rings movies which all ran over 3 hours . or was this movie directed at punk kids with 10 minute attention spans , rather than the fans of anne rice 's vampire chronicles ? such a shame , because this movie really had the potential to equal , if not better , the adaptation of interview with the vampire . i could go on and on about the other things that were done in this movie that i thought were just stupid , silly , etc . etc . kind of like how the other vampires were pissed at lestat for revealing himself to the world as a vampire and giving away vampiric secrets , yet they decide to fly up on stage during the middle of the concert , in front of tens of thousands of people and start fighting , in essence `` revealing '' themselves as well , which is totally inconsistent with why these vampires were angry in the first place . i wo n't go into all of the details , because it would take too much writing to tell you everything that bugged me . bottom line , i guess if you 're into cheesy vampire action flicks with a korn , etc . movie score , then you may still see some value here , but anne rice diehards will most certainly find this movie a waste of their time . but do n't let this movie scare you out of reading the novel , because the book is much much much better than this movie