the story of rubin carter , according to rubin carter the first thing you should know about the hurricane is that it was based on two books , one of which ( the sixteenth round ) was written by rubin carter . the second thing you should know is that rubin carter is not a man of exemplary honesty . the third thing you should know is that the other book ( lazarus and the hurricane ) on which this movie was based was written by two of the canadians who bought into carter 's hokum , as have so many after them . i will not go into a point-by-point list of the patently false claims that carter makes in his book , since other posters here have already done a good job of that . instead , i 'd like to offer some reactions to those here who have given this movie glowing reviews . these are divided into three groups . the first is composed of those who did not know they were taken for a ride . if you belong in this group , i do not fault you . hollywood has a way of perpetrating some very repugnant deceptions on the unsuspecting public . but let me ask you this : if you were presented with hard evidence that this movie is just one big lie put forward by the title `` hero , '' would you still rate it highly ? if your answer is `` yes , '' then you belong in the second group , those who gave this movie a thumbs-up on the basis of its being a powerfully moving drama , and never mind the glaring factual inaccuracies . to this group , i have this to say : if a filmmaker wants to present a true-life story , he has a responsibility to see to it that he has his facts right . it 's called integrity , and it means placing truthfulness far above profitability . you say this is a dramatization and not a documentary ? well , even a dramatization should be done with some integrity . i can go along with some minor embellishments here and there , but when a movie is based on a series of disgustingly blatant lies and tries to pass itself off as a true story , that , in my book , is unforgivable . and so what if it was a rival studio that went out of its way to expose this movie 's dishonesty ? vested interest does not render their arguments invalid . finally , to the third group , those who actually believe that carter is in fact a martyr-scholar , i ask you to please open your eyes . there is absolutely no documentation to support carter 's claims that he defended his friend from a pedophile , that he was a civil rights activist , that he was robbed of a crucial ring victory , and so many other proclamations aimed at propping up his hero image . on the other hand , there are reams of documents that present virtually irrefutable evidence that these very proclamations are a product of one man 's delusional fantasies . you say that cal deal , the man behind graphicwitness.com , is a racist ? please visit graphicwitness.com /carter/racism.html . also , know this : deal went into the rubin carter case actually believing that carter was innocent . it took just one interview for deal to see the many glaring inconsistencies in carter 's statements . he went on to uncover numerous documents and testimonies that exposed carter as a liar . many accounts today have it that carter is a changed man . i sincerely hope this is a real change , and not just a show . but whatever the case , the fact remains that he owes it to the public to admit that his book and this movie are just a lot of hogwash . i 'm not counting on that , though