ninja flick from the writer of 'pretty woman ' ( i 'm not kidding ) : poor actions and laughable story not to be confused with `the hunted ' ( 2003 ) directed by william friedkin . `the hunted ' ( 1995 ) stars french actor christopher lambert as paul racine , american businessman on trip to modern-day nagoya , third-largest city of japan , who happens to witness the killing of a woman by black-masked ninjas . the cult ninja group is actually led by a charismatic leader , japanese named `kinjo ' who is played by a chinese actor john lone , and they begin to search paul to kill . at the end of the film paul , an ordinary businessman , proves to be an equal match when fighting against martial arts master kinjo with a japanese sword . if you can believe this ridiculous story , you can believe anything . i can happily ignore all the cultural inaccuracy in films as long as they give me something entertaining , but unfortunately it was not the case with `the hunted , ' of which story slowly follows a beaten path of the genre to the unexciting climax . moreover , to handle a japanese sword you need certain kind of gracefulness , which tom cruise in `the last samurai ' managed to acquire after many months ' hard training . lambert et al . show no such thing . he and other ninjas just use them fast and furious , but with no grace and consequently , impact at all . instead the film substituted the grace of japanese sword fighting for needless bloody violence , and its pinnacle is the pointless terrorism of the ninjas in the bullet train . this is an insult to japanese culture , for a ninja could be a spy or an assassin , but he is never a terrorist who would kill innocent passengers . but the most damaging is the way how the film treats women , who are there to be used for sex scenes . watching joan chen in a japanese bathtub with christopher lambert was something i never expected to see , and it surely represents the attitudes of some ( if not all ) hollywood films towards women . and it is not surprising to see the film 's director is j. f. lawton , whose biggest hit is julia roberts ' `pretty woman ' ( as a writer ) . by some distributors ( who must have been shocked to know the film 's awful content after buying the right ) really released this universal film theatrically in japan . since then it has been a cult film for avid japanese film fans , who take this film as sort of comedy . really . in addition to the ridiculous casting and the laughable scene where chris and joan make love in japanese bathtub that looks as if made 200 years ago , it has plenty of things that make us laugh - a sweet little girl in pachinko parlor , a kind of gambling place ( what is she doing there ? ) ; a flight attendant-like female assassin in the bullet train ( come on , it 's a train , not an airplane ! ) , and the banging japanese taiko ( drum ) concert in the garden of a nagoya hotel ( you just can not sleep ! ) . even though this is an action flick , it needs some degree of plausibility , which it totally disregards . and there are poorly done actions , which is another reason that makes me regard `the hunted ' as the universal pictures have temporarily stepped into the ed wood 's grade-z territory