mediocre at best if you 're expecting the same power and intensity of `` scooby doo on zombie island '' or `` scooby doo and the witch 's ghost , '' then you are setting yourself up for a disappointment . it is possible that certain powers felt that the first 2 scooby movies were too much for children , but with this 3rd movie come a loss of impact , suspense , character development , and even mystery . it may be true that even a medocre scooby movie is better than no scooby movie at all , but this movie is almost boring after `` zombie island '' or `` witch 's ghost . '' well , scooby and the gang have car trouble in a desert . fred , daphne , and velmah go on foot for help while scooby and shaggy spot what may be an alien invasion . with their famous and hilarious cowardly ways , they run and eventually meet the rest of the gang at a restaurant . at the restaurant , the gang is surprised that the other patrons do n't seem so surprised about the presence of aliens . we also meet lester who appears eccentric but still aware of what has been going on in the area . lester lets the gang stay the night , and scooby and shaggy have their first encounter with the possible 'aliens . ' moving on , scooby and shaggy meet amber and crystal , and are attracted to them . they later meet the mechanic buck as well as a team of scientists ( that we already have met ) . unlike `` zombie island '' and `` witch 's ghost , '' the misleads are not really well drawn . also , rather than being surprised by the discovery of the villains , we are likely to be somewhat disappointed that it was so obvious . even when we are presented with the most unusual character in this story ( in this case it seems pointless to try to hide anything ) it 's nothing most people could n't have figured out . i wo n't deny that there are some good moments in this movie . ( for undoubtedly the first time , scooby and shaggy go to a restaurant and want nothing ! ) but even the old episodes were usually better than this movie . parents may not have to screen this movie , but it is likely that even children will fall asleep during this one . thank goodness for the eventual `` legend of the vampire '' and `` aloha scooby doo . ''