hollywood apocalypse ... sorta it 's a truism that great novels make lousy movies . for evidence of that fact , you need look no further . as the great hollywood novel ( at least there 's no convincing competitor ) , it was inevitable that `` day of the locust '' would hit the screen eventually . and when the time came , some effort was made to ensure the job was done right , beginning with the selection of the director , john schlesinger , a literate british expatriate with a superb track record . but the 70s was the epoch of good intentions gone awry , in film as in everything else . `` locust '' was made during the period when many people considered william atherton to be an actor . you can see him in a number of major films , his expression never changing , with all the emotional impact of a log . it 's one of those things that lends conviction to the claim that the industry runs on herd instinct . but it 's not all atherton 's fault , because nobody comes to life in this flick . not even karen black , one of the most idiosyncratic actresses ever , for all that she 's playing a hooker ( karen must have gotten very tired of that kind of role ) . not even old pro burgess meredith , as her deadbeat old man . donald sutherland reveals a flicker or two , for all that he 's supposed to be playing a lump . the sole exception is jackie earle haley , who portrays the evil-minded child actor adore with truly demonic intensity . maybe they should have let him direct . it would seem difficult to make scenes like the collapse of a huge napoleonic war set or an illegal cockfight look dull , but sclesinger brings it off . i do n't know how -- this is , after all , the guy who made the selection of a new wardrobe for cold war traitor guy burgess look enlightening and entertaining in `` an englishman abroad '' . maybe the milieu overwhelmed him . it 's happened to other people . it all comes to a head at the climax , which is supposed to illuminate an apocalyptic painting of the destruction of la by atherton 's todd . in a single truly effective scene , the distraught homer simpson murders the noxious child actor adore . and then ... well , if you want to see the dullest riot scene in film history , here you are . it 's as if schlesinger said , `` okay , this the 30s , and there were nazis around during the 30s -- so let 's make the rioters nazis ! '' thus we get a lengthy sequence in which people wearing very silly masks ( they look like a chorus of leatherfaces from `` texas chainsaw massacre '' ) stand in one spot goose-stepping . every now and then the camera shifts to a masked woman staring through a car windshield . and that 's your riot . to top things off , schlesinger then gives us a `` symbolic '' coda that succeeds only in casting into doubt everything we 've seen for the past two hours . nathanael west had an unbelievably tough career as an author . his publisher went bankrupt a week before `` miss lonelyhearts '' was due to be published . he died in a car crash only a short time after `` locust '' appeared . then they went and made this movie . remember that next time you start thinking that life is unfair .