i worked on this dull `` erotic vampire '' film -- some `` inside scoops '' ! alyssa milano 's mother ( who is also her manager ) has made a crusade of tracking down nudie pics of her daughter on the internet . she 's denounced such websites ' `` exploitation '' on national tv , and has even developed a side business as a cybercop , lending her web-busting skills to other stars . milano 's mother/manager could have saved herself the trouble had she instead steered her daughter away from doing this film . embrace of the vampire is softcore horror porn , and the source for many of those milano skin pics . after tv 's who 's the boss was canceled ( but before charmed returned milano to star status ) milano was just another unemployed former child actress , so maybe this porn film seemed like a good career move at the time . milano has stated in interviews that she wanted to demonstrate that she was not the goody-two-shoes girl she 'd played in who 's the boss . in other words , she wanted to `` grow '' as an actress . so she did embrace of the vampire , in which she goes topless in several scenes , engages in a lesbian romp with charlotte lewis , and participates in orgies with characters tonguing various parts of her nude body . mission accomplished . actually , embrace of the vampire uses milano 's virginal image from who 's the boss by casting her as ... a virgin . a virgin whose boobs are straining against her too-tight blouse and who undresses before her boyfriend ( albeit asking him not to look ) , but still , a virgin . a virgin who dreams of orgies and fondles lesbians and does n't know why . here 's why : milano is the reincarnation of martin kemp 's true love . some 300 years ago , a pack of scantily clad vampresses turned kemp into a vampire during a blood orgy . now that he 's rediscovered milano , he has three nights to rekindle her love for him . if so , they will live forever as vampires . if not , he dies and loses her forever . why the sudden three-night deadline ? why not . the plot and motivations are paper thin , as is typical of porn . milano wanders around campus , wondering why she 's having so many sexual dreams , even daydreams . her boyfriend wanders about , wondering if she 's so pure . kemp wanders about , seen by milano but often not by others . lewis wanders about for some bisexual action . other collegiates wander about their parties and campus back alleys for some hetero action . amid all this wandering there 's much carnal action , and more carnal dreaming . occasionally , kemp kills someone for dissing milano . john stanley ( in his creature features movie guide ) correctly refers to it as a `` meandering , almost formless script . '' kemp has the best lines . like many vampires , he agonizes and suffers a hyper-romantic vampire angst over a lost love . his appearance is a touch effeminate ( too much eyeliner ) , but it lends an appropriate sinister element to his character . he is part romantic vampire , part bloodthirsty beast . lewis 's small part is pointless to the `` story . '' all that 's required is that she undress , and when she does , it was worth the wait . rachel true ( the craft ) has an even smaller role , the fate of all the characters who keep their clothes on . all of the above three are more interesting , more charismatic , than milano or her boyfriend . at film 's end , kemp 's tearful bloodthirsty angst , and milano 's tearful rediscovery of her love , the `` tragic '' star-crossed ending , and the christian iconography , all mirror coppola 's bram stoker 's dracula ( 1992 ) . one senses that director goursaud was trying to rise above her porn material . however , this is no poor woman 's bram stoker 's dracula . milano is no winona ryder and kemp is no gary oldman . for that matter , none of the other talent on this film compare to their counterparts . and the budget just is n't there . the strength of low-budget horror is a gritty authenticity , which this film tries to hide rather than utilize . how low was the budget ? listen , i was an extra on both bram stoker 's dracula and embrace of the vampire . ( in both instances , i kept my clothes on . ) i worked one day on embrace of the vampire . do n't look for me , i ended up on the cutting room floor , and extras are rarely mentioned in credits . but let me tell you an `` inside story '' on the making of this film : we were shooting in a nightclub on the sunset strip . the extras were divided into three camps : union , nonunion , and modesto extras . union extras earn the most , especially once overtime kicks in , so they were wrapped after eight hours ( they were only hired in the first place to fill a union quota ) . this was during my nonunion days ( i 'm in sag now ) , so i put in a full 14 hours , after which we were paid in cash and wrapped . the modesto extras were still working when we left . now what , you may ask , is a modesto extra ? i also wondered , and so i asked one . i was told they were from an acting class in modesto , california . they had been bussed in to work on the film as part of a `` class assignment . '' in other words , they were paying to come to work . there 's not a whole lot to learn about being an extra . it 's neither glamourous nor difficult . and nonunion extra jobs for twentysomethings are very easy to come by . the lampposts in los angeles are covered with flyers seeking cattle , ehr , extras . i did it for the cash , and because if you do it often enough , you increase your chances of getting into the union ( which i did , after some 13 grueling months ) . never pay for the `` chance '' to be an extra , not in los angeles . i made the mistake of volunteering to be an extra a few times , but wised up after a few months . my guess is the producers of embrace of the vampire paid this acting teacher to bus down some cattle , and far less than even nonunion extras cost . i know this teacher was getting paid by the students , and that they were not getting paid to be on the film . another inside story : someone stole a silver pin belonging to a crew member . she was near tears because it had sentimental value . never leave anything of value lying around on a set . and some trivia : john stanley says this film was `` originally conceived as the nosferatu diaries , '' but on the set , we were told the working title was the collector . embrace of the vampire is a decent time-killer ... barely . if you 're looking for horror , there are hundreds of better films . dozens of better vampire films . even many superior erotic vampire films -- vampyres ( british , 1975 ) comes to mind . but if you 're looking for milano nudies , this is the film to see .