idiotic movie about really stupid people maybe the 1995 script was edgy and groundbreaking , but i doubt it . since vanilla ice was in and out of the cultural eye 4 years before the spec script and 15 years before this movie , the concept of white kids trying to act black in the most ugly ghetto stereotypes is just not all that new . i went to high school with kids like this and i 've bought the eminem cd . and there 's a little more to them than the stupidity . but let 's discuss the movie . anne hathaway plays a dumb girl who thinks that acts ghetto in her gated community and urges her boyfriend to go buy drugs in east l.a . ( ? ? ) . seeing her boyfriend beat down , she 's eager to return and find that hot latino dude that did the beating . then she goes to parties , gets into even more trouble and starts losing her jerry springer-inspired ghetto talk . the mexican guy keeps trying to tell her that there 's more to his life than selling crack on the street corner , but well he 's doing a lot of selling crack on the street corner . actually , he 's coming off like a gangsta yoda ready to impart life lessons at the drop of a hat . yes , it 's ironic that she 's trying to dress ghetto while he 's trying ( not very hard ) to dress suburban ( wife beater is suburban ? ) the movie 's climax is a scene in which anne and bijou ask the guys if they can join their `` crew '' and if the gang did n't have a sex gang initiation for women before they asked , they sure have it then ( and really , who does n't know that that 's gang initiation standard - started by the hell 's angels in 1965 ) . after that disaster ( both anne and bijous say no - but bijou takes a little more time saying no ) the movie unravels as anne hathaway discovers her inner white girl and her friends act even more stupid . there 's a neat scene between her and bijou philips toward the end that almost makes me like these people , but it 's one of the few points of truth in an otherwise dumb movie . the one thing this movie does is to make me appreciate dj squalls ' character from hustle & flow ( and hustle & flow in and of itself ) since that 's a white character in a black world that does n't fall into either extreme of wigger or doogie howser . he 's just himself whereever he goes . he 's someone the morons of this movie could learn from ( but really would n't you rather just see them all shot dead ?