who let the dogs out ? i am sorry to report that this movie is dead on arrival , and i have to agree with anybody that says this movie is [ ... ] . the whole cast is wasted in this movie , and most of which i have seen in movies that i liked better . like pretty much the leads in this movies , i have seen thier movies and liked htem better in , but this one , they might as well . if your a tim allen fan , please do yourself a favor , and get either the santa clause movies , or the toy story movies , and avoid this movie at all costs . here are 99 minuts of my life , that i wo n't see again , and i am trying to make sure that you do n't waste your time on this dud . who wants to see an actor pretned to be a dog , in some scenes in the movie , ore pretty much the whole thing . i have n't seen monster house or cars , but i hope that these will be 2 better movies , or maybe a season dvd of home improvement will be pretty then this . dave douglas ( tim allen ) is a lawyer , that dislikes dogs , and even has a case against animal activist justin forrester ( joshua leonard ) . and he is up for accused of trying to torch the california headquarters of sinister pharmaceutical conglomerate grant & strictland . and he does n't much of a family life , since he is never home , and how many times have we seen something like this in a movie ? his wife is rebecca douglas ( kristin davis ) and they have 2 children josh ( spencer breslin ) and carly ( zena grey ) . and he has an appoontment to josh 's pta meetings , and even through he is reminded at work , he forgets . carly is not only a is both forrester 's student and a budding animal advocate herself , and her brother is trying out for football like his dad , even through he secretly hates it , and did n't sign up for the fall musical . and then there is a mad scientist ( robert downey jr. ) , trying to extract the secret of immortality from the shaggy hide of a 300-year-old dog he had kidnapped from a tibetan monastery . and carly even kidnaps it from grant & strictland , and brings him home , nad even trouble starts when the dog bites douglas , that gets him starting acting like a dog too , and even looking exactly like him at times . the movie expects us to believe the dog is 300 years old , which would be impossible , since neither dogs or people live that long , all i can say we are in an era of movies being made out of sequels and remakes , and this is one to avoid at all costs .