just sleep-inducing : yet another pointless remake john carpenter 's `the fog ' may not be his greatest film , and that is exactly the reason for remaking or improving it . the character of vengeful blake could be scarier with modern prosthetics , and the deadly fog that sneaks in on the townspeople could be more atmospheric with today 's special effects . revolution studios seems to have thought the same way , but sadly something went terribly wrong while making the film itself . what is wrong ? the answer is clear . that is the film 's incoherent storytelling , which made me dizzy while watching it . the original 's story about the ghosts seeking revenge remains intact , and the film presents how they show up at the quite seaside town ( or an island ... whatever ) shrouded in a fog . so far , it 's good , but the problem is how to tell this story . apparently the fog is so whimsical that it appears and disappears without particular logics behind its random actions . it can sneak into a kitchen , but not a fridge . it can turn a human into a mummy-like corpse in a second , but it uses that trick not much , because it seems to know that the cgi is costly . the lack of consistent logics just helps make the film scare-free . slow and sleep-inducing pace of the film only makes us realize the impossibility of the film 's plot . in horror films i usually do n't expect much from the characters , but the behaviors of them here are incredibly stupid . if you find a video camera that might prove your friend is not a killer , you wo n't hide it from the police and give it to your girlfriend . forget the law of physics here . if your car crashes , overturning several times before finally plunging into the sea , you would get seriously hurt . not in this film , because of the driver happens to be the star of the film . new version of `the fog ' is not scary . well , the original was not that scary , but it was moody and stylish . they certainly did change some part of the original , but none of the changes make sense . so ... why did they remake it