`` just answer the questions , mr. paquette . the attorneys will provide the wisecracks . '' upon its initial release , the attention that otto preminger 's `` anatomy of a murder '' attracted due to its subject matter undoubtedly deflected some attention away from the fact that the film had its fair share of problems . when watched today after much of its scandalous elements have lost their power to shock , its meandering story and uneven characterizations are exposed front and center . attorney paul biegler ( james stewart ) is asked to defend lieutenant frederick manion ( ben gazzara ) after a bar owner is found murdered . manion claims that he committed the murder in a fit of rage after his wife , laura ( lee remick ) , was raped . while preparing his case for trial , biegler finds that laura is extremely difficult to work with because of her temperamental and flirtatious nature . nevertheless , the resourceful attorney continues to work on exonerating his client even though it is not clear whether he and his wife are being entirely truthful with him . stewart is his dependable self in `` anatomy of a murder . '' in fact , his performance as an attorney who is not afraid to stretch the rules is the one saving grace of the film . there is little nuance in the performances of gazzara and remick and even the great george c. scott misses the mark with an over-the-top effort . yet , the problems with the acting is secondary to the unfocused screenplay . `` anatomy of a murder '' oftentimes seems more concerned with exploring the eccentric natures of its characters than in telling a good story . the investigation of the crime is done in a half-hearted manner and the mystery behind the dual crimes of the rape and the murder are never resolved to any satisfaction . for a film to run as long as `` anatomy of a murder '' does , one would think that there would be more than enough time to resolve all of the lingering questions posed by the film . yet , this is not the case