but the movie only has one even though i am not a streisand fan , i was astonished at just how dopey and annoying this movie was . the plot is supposed to revolve around a big change in appearance for streisand 's character , making her attractive - no , irresistible - to the main male character . the problem is , she looks almost exactly the same before and after the makeover ! somebody ( probably streisand ) thinks that highlighted hair , a tight black cocktail dress , and a baggy-lipped smirk are irresistible whereas a pink bridesmaid dress , casual clothes , and everyday looks are disgusting . baaaaaamp ! ( that 's the fallacy alarm going off : men , in my experience , do n't care much about clothes and makeup . ) there was a lot of emphasis placed on the streisand character 's losing weight by riding an exercise bike , but she looked exactly the same afterward - no detectable weight difference ! yet truly , the low point of the movie is the scene in which streisand , discussing her baby and early-childhood photos with her mother ( played by lauren bacall ) , blubbers , `` wazz i a pretty baby ? wazz i a pretty babyyyyeeee ? '' in that one scene , streisand 's neuroticism concerning her looks is fully revealed . the whole movie is about this issue , and it 's amazing that an entire cast , crew , and production company would devote themselves to b.s . 's emotional issues like that . i really think that the `` funny girl '' phenomenon somehow ruined streisand 's thought processes . the media buzz about her at the time was that she was kind of cute despite being light-years away from the stereotyped , northern european beauty standard of the time ( think grace kelly ; think ingrid bergman ... .. ) . i recall reading about how her glowing complexion , thick hair , and good figure ( as well as her energy and voice ) carried her through despite her looks : long nose , large lips , slanted eyes . myself , i think she looks like an egyptian princess or similar ; but she certainly does n't look like grace kelly ... .. so why ca n't she accept this ? the majority of us women , whatever our race , color , or bone-structure , learn to live with and love who we are ... ..at least i hope we do ! this movie is not about that . this movie says that you have to have a certain dress and hairdo to be desirable . maybe i should 've given it only one star