starts out strong , but fizzles quickly ... let me start by saying that i may need to quit listening to the opinions of some of my co-workers in regards to movies to watch , at least when it comes to the horror genre . numerous people where i work told me that this movie , `` the descent '' was absolutely one of the best horror movies ever to be made . in their defense , my co-workers were n't the only people with this opinion , many critics and other moviegoers said the same thing . well , apparently the hype that was built up for me regarding this movie was more than the film could live up to , because i was sorely disappointed , but more on that later , for now i will give you my plot summary for last year 's supposed horror spectacular , `` the descent '' `` the descent '' begins with a young woman on vacation with her family and friends , when her husband and her daughter suffer a tragic accident . one year later at the prodding of those same friends , she accompanies them on a spelunking adventure , the problem is none of her friends have ever been to this cave , in fact it 's a newly discovered cave that no one has explored as yet . so as they attempt to explore the unexplored these brave young women become trapped in the cave . making matters worse , this cave is not like any ordinary cave , for this one is inhabited by bloodthirsty mutant creatures who have just found their next meal . at the beginning of watching this movie i was really interested in the developing story , and the shocking opener really caught my attention , giving me a sense that this movie is going to be different than most horror movies by actually giving you the unexpected . however , once the story gets to the part where the girls are inside the cave , which is actually where the majority of the film takes place , things begin to go awry for the picture . at first , the filmmakers were doing a good job of using the claustrophobic atmosphere , giving the audience a sense of entrapment and anxiety which served to heighten the suspense regarding the possibility of impending doom . then the filmmakers introduce a fact that i felt completely derailed the movie , this is a cave that no one has been in , and these girls are hardly professional . so , who in their right mind would put all of their friends lives in possible jeopardy just to be the first to explore a newly discovered cave . it 's absolutely stupid , especially when placed viewed in the context of the character 's interaction and companionship with each other , none of these girls would do this to each other . after this occurs the mutants show up , a plot point that i was hoping would help put the movie back in the right direction ; however , this is where the movie begins to unwind even faster , because it 's now just one gory scene after another , and the movie is nothing more than your average monster movie . a decision i somewhat agreed with , yet still did n't agree with was the decision to keep the mutants origins unknown . on the one hand this served to add to the mystery of why they are attacking these girls , you just assume they 're cannibalistic , but on the other it would have been nice to know how they got there . even though `` the descent '' was hyped as being one of the best horror movies of recent time , by both my friends and many critics and moviegoers , to me it was merely another average addition to a genre that is already full of mediocrity . `` the descent '' is unrated and contains violence and language