possibly one of the worst movies ever there is nothing redeeming about this movie . no . i 'm sorry . there 's no negotiating with that . i do n't care if i come back and see `` 0 of 2,000 people have found this review helpful '' i wo n't change my opinion . this movie is just flat out bad ! why is it so bad ? i could write a book on it , but i can sum it all up by simply saying it is your typical disaster film . it follows every single cliche in the book . and i do n't mean fun cliche like horror movies , i mean like you know what 's going to happen the entire movie five minutes in . 1 . natural disaster of ludicrous proportions hits america . no other nation is affected , of course , or if they are only to a slight degree . 2 . government leaders go , `` omfg wtf ? '' and try to prevent it . initial destruction is prevented by blocking up the storyline with subplots . 3 . some cockamany idea to stop the disaster is attempted . it works ... 4 . ... for about five seconds . then real disaster hits and millions die . let 's think seriously here : how many mega natural disasters have befallen major american cities ? like serious disasters ? i can think of two : san francisco in the early 1900 's and recently new orleans . yet somehow in movies when a natural disaster hits , it always hits a highly populated area . there 's loads more cliches - hell , a section in part two concerning people escaping a destroyed casino is basically a thirty minute `` poseidon 's adventure . '' with such ingenuity , you would n't expect too much character development , would you ? i hope not , because this movie has the most typical assortment of characters you 'll ever find : * the government official who tells other characters what 's going on and shoots people worried looks . * the typical government leader ( in this case , the president ) who mostly does yelling and pity-playing * the feisty , independent daughter who has a coming of age moment - and who by the way , happens to be the president 's daughter and happens to get her father to ask the secret service to leave her alone . um ... the president does n't even have the power to tell the secret service to leave him alone . * the wife trapped in a building who turns out to be pregnant . * the two brothers who hate each other but learn to cope with one another before one of them dies . * the guy who yells `` i 'm getting out of here ! '' and gets killed upon trying to escape . * the worry-wort girl who is told `` you 'll make it out of here '' only to die two minutes later . * the stubborn old folks who refuse to leave their home , even with immenant death and destruction headed their way . why ? `` this is our home ! '' your suburban house in houston ? please ! unless you 're living on freggin ' indian burial grounds , do n't tell me your small patch of turf is worth getting yourself killed for . you 're supposed to care for these people . you 're supposed to feel bad when they die . but since they 're the same cookie-cutter characters you 've seen a hundred times in a hundred different disaster movies , you really do n't care . but let me get to my biggest beef with this movie ... who the heck directed this ? ! lem me check imdb ... john lafia ? hey john - do n't ever direct again ! or if you do , here 's a little advice - keep your damn camera still ! every single shot is either shaky cam or zooms . yes , zoom . zoom in . zoom out . zoom in . zoom out . every single shot . does n't matter the mood , tone , or action . zoom in . zoom out . it 's like they did n't plan out any of the scenes and the camera man had to correct every shot . this gets old in about five minutes . no , actually , it got old in ten seconds . and considering this is a two-part miniseries , about an hour and a half long each , it 's enough to have someone commit suicide . is this movie good ? no , because i 've seen it already . i saw it when it was called `` deep impact . '' i sall it when it was called `` armaggedon . '' i saw it when it was `` dante 's peak . '' i saw it when it was `` volcano . '' i saw it when it was `` asteroid . '' i saw it when it was ... arg ! ! my apologies for the bitter review , but this movie really tried my patience . i can not understand how there are people out there that like this . i suppose there is a secret cult of self-mutilating masochists out there who enjoy punishing themselves by watching bad movies for their own sick , evil amusement . then again , perhaps i hate and love this movie as much as i hate and love myself..