formulaic , but watchable . paparazzi ( paul abascal , 2004 ) paparazzi is best known for being icon production 's first released film after the mighty ( and mightily money-making ) majesty that was the passion of the christ . the icon connection , however , is where any similarity between the two films comes to an abrupt and jarring end . where passion pushed all sorts of envelopes for mainstream american film , paparazzi is simple and formulaic , never rearing its ugly head from the morass of revenge fantasy in which it finds itself bogged . bo laramie ( pitch black 's cole hauser , looking and acting more and more like his dad by the day ) has gone overnight from nobody to superstar thanks to his film adrenaline force . subsequently , he 's packed up his family and moved to the suburbs of la to be closer to the set for his new picture ( predictably , adrenaline force 2 ) . along with the closeness of the commute , however , comes the mobs of paparazzi . laramie runs afoul of photojournalist rex harper ( the always-slimy tom sizemore ) , who convinces three of his friends to help him put laramie in his place . in doing so , however , they inadvertently cause an accident that lands both laramie 's wife ( the craft temptress robin tunney ) and son ( jurassic park iii 's blake michael bryan ) in the hospital . cue revenge-fantasy music here . the film is watchable , as one would normally expect from this sort of action film . the roles are acted capably enough , though two-dimensionally ; it 's almost as if hauser , who 's made his living mostly playing guys like rex harper , only knows how to play the hero as a square-jawed tarzan type . that 's not surprising in an action flick , though , and can be forgiven most times ( look at predator 2 ) . where the film becomes moronic to the point of offensive , though , is in the accident scene itself , which is so obviously ripped off from tales of princess diana 's death as to be insulting to the intelligence of the average viewer . *