interesting archival footage grafted onto bad history this production is misleadingly named . far from being a biography of grand duchess anastasia , it is really the story of how the deaths of her family at the hands of russian revolutionaries in 1918 spawned one of the 20th century 's enduring mysteries -- a mystery which was given a unique lease on life when , among the myriad male and female claimants to be survivors of the imperial family , one woman began to pick up supporters in the 1920 's among at least some people who had had contact with the original family . i do not fault this production for failing to be a real biography . after all , how much of a biography can one write on a 17-year-old girl whose life was largely one of sheltered privilege ? however , i do fault this production for being a badly-flawed recounting of history . and i am not talking about the interminable debate that still rages in the arcane world of romanov history buffs about whether anna anderson was really anastasia . this work 's take on the life of anastasia paints a very tilted picture both of the world of the romanovs , their support among their subjects , and their reputation among today 's russians . first , life in the inner sanctum of nicholas 's family was not the halcyon existence this production claims . certainly the family had great wealth and huge staff at its disposal . but neither nicholas nor alexandra were well-suited to their roles , and they lived under the strain of it . they were increasingly isolated from the extended romanov clan , who shared the dawning awareness of the russian people that the monarchy was in serious trouble . while these forces might not have touched anastasia directly , she was certainly touched by her brother 's hemophilia and her mother 's response of sinking into frail health , chronic emotional distress , and a religious mysticism that almost bordered on hysteria at times . secondly , this film 's portrayal of the counter-revolutionary white army as determined to save their beloved tsar from captivity is just plain wrong . while the whites wanted to unseat the bolshevik revolution , there was virtually no support for a romanov restoration among the leadership of the white army . nor are there any known attempts by the counter-revolutionary forces to rescue their former imperial family . in fact , one senior white military leader once remarked , `` having seen the monarchy at close quarters , i have no desire to see its return . '' and thirdly , while there is a gradual rehabilitation of the last romanov 's reputation underway in russia today , the notion that the murdered romanovs are saints is not nearly the widespread sentiment that this production claims . in fact , the great masses of modern russians are far more interested in making their new democracy work than in figuring out how to get the sainted romanovs back on a throne . i do not know whether these flaws arise from some agenda to rehabilitate the romanovs , whether they arise from sloppy research that relied too much on the fawning pseudo-history that plagues serious study of the russian monarchy 's fading years , or whether this production did not have access to newly-opened archives . but -- whatever the reason ( s ) -- it does a disservice to the study of history by claiming to be history when it is , in fact , closer to a grocery-store romance novel