personal truths and loyalties i read all 33 of the other reviews here to get other perspectives - a lively debate . there were so many brilliant things said about the film , that i found myself passing out `` helpful '' votes ( to both positive & blisteringly negative reviews ) like they were candy . the movie is an evocative work of art . i encourage people to read all the reviews if they want to enjoy the movie from many different points of view . i agree with many of the positive and negative comments that have been made by other reviewers , but i will limit my comments to items not previously mentioned . the dvd cover gives the false impression that this is a love story about two young lovers , a sort of `` blue lagoon '' from the renaissance . it is not . it is misleading . i concede a ) the story is probably not historically accurate , b ) statutory rape occurred and probably rape under any definition , & c ) tossi was probably inconsiderate , conceited , and immoral . but the quality of a film is not judged solely on historical accuracy and the high morality of the characters . having said that , i do object that the movie , according to the rape trial transcript and some of the best evidence available , is not just inaccurate , but oppositional to what probably occurred . therefore , i critique the film for portraying itself as the story of a real person . the movie stumbles internally because it tries to justify actual historical effects with fictional ( or incorrect ) causal factors . and those cause-effect relationships do n't seem to ring true . having said that , i agree with some of richard burt 's review comments that `` historical accuracy '' may still be subject to interpretation . it is reasonable that artemisia may have been more adversarial speaking in a public rape trial ( defending her freedom and reputation ) than she might have been with tassi personally . and it seems too easy to just paint tassi as a purely evil character as other reviewers have done . there is usually more complexity and diverse/conflicting interests in most people , especially artists . one strong objection - near the end of the film , artemisia says , `` no one dies of sorrow . '' while there is probably some intended sarcasm in the comment , the line frustrated me . people do die of sorrow . my limited experience has suggested that some of the smartest , most sensitive , artistic , and caring people i 've encountered were the same people most threatened by sorrow . and the people i have admired the most are the same people who have been mortally threatened by sorrow . not selfish , controlling , or passive-aggressive sorrow , but rather sorrow that comes from other less obvious motivations - often unidentified & misunderstood misconceptions . sorrow can lead to literal death and deaths of the spirit , character , the soul , & creativity . sorrow is not incidental . sorrow can destroy health . or as the angel of america in `` angels in america '' says , `` the body is the garden of the soul . '' sorrow is worth full attention . the movie tries to examine the effect of artemisia 's loyalties to her father and her teacher . the screenwriter is not bent on us assessing those relationships as simply `` good '' or `` bad '' ; both relationships are drawn as having both good or bad effects on artemesia . her loyalties encourage her artistry and her expression . they work to create an environment that does not inhibit or conceal her gifts . at the same time , they are so intrusive that they almost certainly affect her choices , privacy , and pacing beyond her desired level of influence . artemisia realizes she would probably not be the painter she becomes except for her father 's drive and design . at the same time , she also laments that his constant intervention narrowed the occupations she could participate in - in polite society . may your loyalties encourage seeking and speaking the best personal truths you can find . and may the best personal truths you can find shape your loyalties . compare caravaggio 's `` judith beheading holofernes '' to artemisia 's version of the same painting . her version is more violent , realistic ( less idealized in posing , dirtiness , lighting , etc. ) . her version has the female servant actively helping judith . artemisia 's paintings show a palpable understanding of hate , violence , sexuality & compassion . artemisia likely became expressive of the personal feelings and experiences she knew best . that 's why people care about whether a movie about her life characterizes her experiences accurately - because we want to know what led her to her creative decisions