did we see the same movie ? ? okay , the script is not the most imaginative i 've ever seen , but i like the actors ( especially ben 's best man ) so i was friendly with this movie for the most part . i did n't even mind the obvious holes in the plot , such as ... why do these characters not have credit cards or cell phones ? or at least , why do n't they use them ? oh no , much more plausible that ben will have to strip dance in a gay bar for $ 150 to buy a car to drive to nc . i did n't even mind the fact that the whole `` we 're married and my husband 's a doctor . '' charade was so predictable . oh gee , he 's pretending to be a doctor and he 's on a tour bus with a bunch of elderly people . d'ya think someone might have a heart attack and `` dr. holmes '' might have to step up ? and uh , they 're pretending to be married and oh ! surprise there 's the best man and maid of honor ! d'ya think they 're gon na get busted ? what killed it for me was that ridiculous ending . it was obviously supposed to be a surprise ( and it was ) but there seemed to be no other reason for it than to pull a fast one on the audience . i felt cheated . i spent the entire movie getting emotionally involved with the relationship between sarah and ben , and i really cared about how they would handle things with the fiance and sarah 's little boy and all that . i cheerfully became disengaged from the relationship between ben and bridget , i totally believed neither one of them was ready to get married or right for each other . the film spent an inordinate amount of time showing me they 're not right for each other and that this wedding was not meant to happen . right up to the last moment , we think he 's breaking it off with bridget . instead , what the heck let 's just go ahead and get married after all . huh ? he left sarah sitting out there waiting for him in a hurricane ! ! ! after making her promise that she would still be there when he got back . this man obviously does n't have a clue what he wants in life , and i 'm expected to believe they lived happily ever after ? not only that , but what does it teach us about taking this commitment seriously ? it teaches us that if our instinct is telling us `` do n't do it ! '' and our genitals are yearning for someone else and even mother nature seems to be working hard to prevent this marriage , aw heck go on ahead and do it anyway . it 's just marriage . it 's romantic ! you could get lucky and live happily ever after ! it 's been my experience , when things are n't feeling just right as you approach that wedding , turn and run . the last thing you should do is close your eyes , grab your balls and take the leap