horrid ... this is going to sound like an exaggeration ... but this is one of the worst movies i have ever seen . i will admit that i did n't have high hopes for this film . i mean , it did n't come out in theaters ( at least in the u.s. ) , which is never a good sign , no movie store seems to have it in stock , and i read some pretty crippling reviews right here on good ol ' amazon . but hey , i gave it a shot . boy , was that a mistake ... first of all , here 's a quick synopsis : years ago , king hrothgar ( stellan skarsgard ) killed a troll , but took pity on the troll 's son , grendel ( ingvar eggert sigurosson ) , and left him alone . grendel , now full-grown , is seeking revenge on hrothgar 's kingdom . hearing of hrothgar 's plight , the fierce warrior beowulf ( gerard butler ) comes to help the king kill grendel . along the way beowulf meets a witch/prostitute named selma ( sarah polley ) and discovers that trolls have feelings too . now , we all know that stellan skarsgard and gerard butler are great actors , but in this movie they fumble with a halting and painfully corny script . the script affects the acting , and the acting affects the film . secondly , though sarah polley is a lovely actress , she seems very misplaced in this film . she 's the only character with an american accent and , in an age-old anglo-saxon myth , this is very , very out of place . in addition , the small amount of weight that gerard butler has put on around the stomach area draws a little from his role as an unstoppable , highly-trained warrior . the battle scenes are unnecessarily gory , with fake-looking and very blood-soaked limbs flying left and right . they seem primitive compared to the battle scenes of other films . the scene in which beowulf fights grendel 's mother is especially bad - there 's lots of shrieking and strobe-light-esque movements that seem almost comical in this day and age . the only things that can be said in this movie 's defense are that the sweeping iceland landscapes are breathtaking and the celtic monk ( eddie marsan ) is mildly-amusing in his efforts to convert everyone . 1-star ... please do n't waste 103 minutes of your life on this film