not so fair and completely unbalanced - see my media scorecard pundits would have you believe that fox news and rupert murdoch are the antithesis of quality journalism . they even based a bond villian on murdoch in one ofe the more forgettable movies . nothing gets a liberal 's eyes rolling than when you say you watch fox news . this attackumentary wants you to believe that fox is biased and not credible . watch this attackumentary and listen for yourself to what they are saying and draw your own conclusions . the former reporters gripe throughout this `` piece '' that rupert murdoch changed how reporters operate , for the worse in their opinion . what actually happened is that these reporters had to work for a change . they had to work hard , something they probably never did before . murdoch , like any driven person , demanded nothing less than excellence from his employees . those that could hang , rose with fox news . those that could not keep up appear in `` outfoxed '' . fox does have a bias on its commentary section . this draws ratings . the thing that the pundits seem to have a problem with is separating the journalism from the commentary sections even with fox putting a big sign up saying `` commentary '' . they are so used to their `` mainstream '' liberal journalists blending their personal views and possibly slipping in actual news that they can not tell the difference anymore . here is my latest scorecard : mainstream media : latest and greatest from reuters , a major supplier of news to the always objective `` mainstream media '' ; fired a reporter for falsifying photos to show violence worse than actually happened . this photographer decided that his photos ( or the war ) was not alarming enough so he added a few more smoke plumes and darkened the overall image . how many other war photos have been doctored this way ? on the reuters ' news page there is no mention of this deliberately manufactured garbage . you had to go to their main page and look way over to the right side to find the story . i guess they still have enough shame to be embarassed about this incident . the bastion of liberal `` non-thinking '' ; new york times has had several reporters writing stories about events that they did not actually do background work on . in other words , they phoned in their stories without any actual knowledge of the events . they also revealed secrets that hurt the world 's efforts on fighting terrorists . cnn - nicknamed the clinton news network during the 90 's for swallowing anything the clintons had to give and asking for seconds , the only thing they were upset about during the whole lewinsky scandal was that they wanted to be the ones under the desk . on their online `` news headlines '' section they repeatedly have lou dobb 's column appear mixed in with news as if what he says is news . lou dobb 's is the paid liberal mouthpiece for cnn and everything he states is opinion not news . you would think they would put him on their opinion section but unlike fox they do n't have one . they think it is perfectly all right to mix opinion with news . usa today breaks a huge story on a massive phone tapping scandal . oops , turns out it was n't as massive as it seemed and the data was given voluntarily . over 70 % of the american population agreed with the bush administration on this move despite his otherwise low approval rating . cbs 's dan rather , this is the man man who nearly wept on camera when the republican revolution swept through congress in 1994 . all his hopes of a liberal presidency were washed away . he launched a smear campaign against president bush using the worst journalistic standards imaginable . his background investigation was nil . people discredited this story almost instantly and yet he persisted on reporting it . after everything was said and done he still tried everything in his power to prevent having to recant . the editor for the los angeles times had to put out a memo to his people to try not to be so biased during the 2004 election . finally there is newsweek , whose irresponsible reporting was the direct cause of riots that led to a score of deaths and untold injuries . they were so eager to report the desecration of islam 's holy writ that they failed to see if it actually happened . they ended up recanting with a pseudo apology that laid the blame on everyone but themselves . the blood may wash off easy but do the memories and guilt remain ? that is a question the reporters and the editors can only answer . if so , that is the punishment you deserve for abusing one of the most important and influential professions in the world . perhaps others will think twice before fanning the flames of hatred just to sell a few more issues . these are just minor examples of how the `` mainstream '' media operates . these are real stories and influence real events in the world , sometimes with serious consequences . this is not the same as news commentators spouting off at the mouth about an issue of the day . if you want more then read the book bias by bernard goldberg to get a real understanding . i will stick to fox news as i have yet to find a major scandal regarding how they report the news . like any prudent person i take my news from a variety of sources and choose for myself on how to interpret what it all means . i do take news with a grain of salt if it is coming from sources that have proven they are more interested in being first than in being correct . cnn , reuters , cbs , newsweek , ny times all fall squarely into the `` dubious at best '' category . all i have gotten from this attackumentary is a bunch of liberals and hack reporters whining because fox separates the opinions from the facts , allowing people to decide for themselves how they want to interpret the news and america loves them for it . the liberals hate fox news . fox actually investigates and reports on what happened ; not what the liberals wished would have happened . they show the liberals for what they are , full of $ % $ ^ . they hated it when fox repeatedly showed then president clinton walking in a funeral procession laughing it up , that is until he saw a tv camera and started shedding crocodile tears . fox news made the general public aware that the budget successes of the 90 's was due mostly to newt gingrich . clinton had a disastrous first 2 years of his presidency . gingrich 's congress would not send clinton the pork barrel projects so he could n't spend to excess . i wish we had gingrich leading the congress doing the same to president bush . i am sure rupert murdoch is feeling `` outfoxed '' ; right now his network is ranked numero uno as it has been for some time . this dvd is hovering between 2000 and 3000 . i am ranked higher than it is .