the hallmark of a pseudo-scientist there is nothing wrong with the form of this documentary : it is well presented with great cgis , narration and overall structure - hence it is worth at least two stars ( whatever this stars rating business means ) . the problem is the substance : it is simply not there . menzies is one of those pseudo-scientists ( as he is indirectly described by one of his opponents ) that are in love with their own baseless theory and are not prepared to question its validity regardless of the absence of evidence corroborating it or the presence of evidence contradicting it . i think a true scientist should not be emotionally attached to any theory and should simply be involved with the process of discovering evidence . menzies , starts off with his conclusion ( rather than ending with it ) and fumbles his way backwards trying to find evidence to support it . when all alleged evidence is demolished , he arrogantly states that he will not budge , `` one millimetre '' as he puts it , from his theory and that , in time , everyone will accept it as a fact that the chinese were the first to discover america . a true scientist , even in the presence of evidence substantiating his/her viewpoint , always keeps an open mind and is prepared to accept the eventuality that they may be proved wrong in the future . menzies does exactly the opposite : with no evidence on his side , he refuses to admit even for a second that he just may be wrong . it saddens me that by simply engaging in what is nothing short of unsubstantiated verbal diarrhoea , menzies - not a scientist but , at best , a qualified mariner - managed to make a buck on his book and that pbs , helped him earn some more on the back of his childish theory by making a documentary on him . the feeling one gets at the end , is that pbs ran out of ideas for their next production and decided to make a meal out of this chap 's air-ology . whilst visually pleasing , this pbs production is in substance a waste of time to watch , as it is neither educating nor troubling the mind of the viewer