the fun is stealthiest of all ... they call it brainless fun , but it 's not even fun . yes , `` stealth '' is that not-rare-enough bad movie that 's actually so bad , it 's no fun . it starts out bad from the beginning - with an on-screen title sequence dating this film `` in the near future '' , which should trip alarms for anybody whose ever watched an episode of `` mystery science theater 3000 '' . the heroes of our story - three pilots assigned to fly hyper-tech us fighters called `` talons '' - are reluctantly joined by a fourth pilot , a robotic fighter jet called edi . trouble starts immediately when edi develops an acute case of self-awareness and faster than you can say `` i 'm sorry dave , i really ca n't do that '' , edi is ignoring orders and raising all sorts of havoc . it 's hard to get more specific without ruining the plot ... because there really is n't any plot . the story we see on the screen hints at several different plot-ideas that never form into a single story - we have the plot about stopping `` crazy edi '' ; the plot about the evil admiral played by sam shepard who will do anything he can to keep the lid on edi when he goes bad ; we have jessica biel as a fighter pilot running from the bad guys after she 's shutdown over north korea ; then we have josh lucas as the other talon pilot whose on the run from some goons who are trying to ... oh , who cares ? none of these plots go anywhere . but what about them effex ? ? `` stealth '' offers us hours of aerial dogfighting in unsurpassed cgi - unsurpassed because the movie demonstrates that there are some things that simply ca n't be left to computer animation . even though they 're next generation aircraft , the f/a-37 talon fighters never convincingly look like any airplanes , and the aerial effects here look little more believable than those done over 20 years ago in `` firefox '' or `` deal of the century '' , or nowadays on any flight simulator game run on any desktop-pc . the effects compound the error by maximizing use of `` impossible shots '' - shots that could n't be seen by a human perspective , such as those that cut across the sky and directly inside the subject aircraft - it 's a clever shot , but not a terrible smart one ( they never stop reminding us that these are effects ) . it 's probably too much effort to explain that even elite fighter pilots do n't want to be confused by a flight panel that suddenly starts broadcasting real-time images of a bunch of terrorists sitting down as if for a cnn foto-op , or that none of the pilots come off as even casual aviators . `` stealth '' is one of those mindless movies that effete snobbish reviewers like to blame on teenage boys , but this flick lost a ton of money ( stealthy profits ) which is only strong proof that the monster audience of mindless boys is itself a delusion of these frustrated critics and studio execs , or even stronger proof that those mindless teenage boys may be smarter than anybody realizes