a truly amazing film this movie is a classic in terms of jaw-droppingly honest self-aggrandizement . if you took everything out of an early 80 's woody allen film except the repugnant parts , you 'd get `` fall , '' and it 's made me a devoted eric schaeffer fan . what 's so amazing about it all is the sheer self-centered wish-fulfillment that schaeffer indulges in . it 's so cool ! every single character in the movie exists only as a vehicle to convey to his character how incredibly great he is -and why not ? ! he has two female friends who we know almost nothing about except that they 're constantly impressed with his life and abilities as a lover . he 's got the supermodel lover who ultimately dumps him only because he 's too cool , too hot , too real for her . i 'm not kidding . you must see this . then there 's the sex . schaeffer 's character ( who , like shaeffer , is a nyc cab driver who had an affair with a married supermodel who ultimately dumped him ) is so amazingly incredible as a lover that he makes his supermodel climax without touching her ! if that 's not cool enough , his two lady friends then spend time marveling at this , about how great it is that he did that without touching her ! wow ! later , she actually violates him with the aid of a toy , but once again it 's her who climaxes , thanks to his incredible dirty-talk and overall amazingness . this guy 's a dynamo , and thankfully there is n't a frame of the film that is n't devoted to showing that or having one of the other characters tell him that . as i said , he gets dumped eventually , just like in real life . but schaeffer wants us to know the truth , that it 's because he 's too great and she 's ultimately too shallow and loves him too intensely . schaeffer even imagines his lover 's husband as a sexless idiot and gives him the line `` maybe i 'm shallow and superficial , but ... '' the husband then goes on to acknowledge that he ca n't compete with whoever this incredible lover-man is , but that he 'll `` be there '' if she changes her mind and chooses the shallow , easy path . eric 's `` character '' is just that good . for anyone who , like me , lives in a world where the only obstacles are the fact that some people resent how incredible i am and that the world revolves around me instead of them ... this movie is for us