ken park how not to make a movie larry clark reminds me of a lot let 's take a look at his pathetic resume shall we : *kids-yes another soft porn film involving kids . *bully- this movie should be when `` white trash attacks '' . bully featured mundane acting , the most unlikable characters ever to put on screen , stupid characters , a `` twist '' that aint really a twist , awful camera shots and angle and a `` gay bull '' . nuff said . *teenage caveman-subpar sci-film . now we get to ken park , probably the most revolting story of clark 's kids trilogy if you will . these kids special ? please give me a break . i don't call killing your neighbors or grandparents , special . doing drugs makes you special ? funny i thought that made you a druggie and a loser . there is no smoothness or observation or anaylsis of the kids from any sort of rhetorical view . anyone who who seeks to compare this to classic shows like family ties , or my so called life is n't fooling anyone . one key difference , the kids in so called life , knew they were troubled , lost and asked for help . the teens in `` ken park '' could give a crap if they live or die , their days are spent on drug binges , fornicating with the friends and in some cases , their friend 's mother . really it does n't get anymore revoling that larry clark . none of the characters in the movie can be considered , weak , inept , pathetic , loony comes to mind but far from being strong . softcore and hardcore pornograpy seem to be what the filmmaking is echoing nothing else , the other reviews even the most positive ones can ignore that . there is no reality with these kids , they live in their violent world and heaven forbid if you try to take them out of it . clark is not anybody 's master of art , if you 're art is hardcore pornography , mixed in with convulted storyline , with no rolemodels , no point and weak characters then people need to pick up a dictionary or read actual definitions of art . the movie is nothing more than tour de force of obscene garbage that should be flushed down the toilet . seeing at the reception clark has received over the year , it 's great that fans are starting to see what he really is just a perverted old man , nothing else . even then his movies make him look even more pathetic .