motzart 's video collection ? i hate to part company with the other reviewers here , as well as the amazon comments but this not a must have . i am huge fan of new order and joy division and think they are one of the most important modern western popular bands of the last , almost thirty years for all their well-known contributions to existentilism and furturism in alternative , independent rock . basically inventing post-punk , being one of the inventors of the dance-music , electronica scene a decade before most other bands and accidentaly inventing `` goth '' music along the way . not to mention being excellent musicians with a very artsy , deep and humorous sensitivity . but , because they are such a good band it is glarringly obvious that the `` rock video '' is nothing more than a corporate music business era chore that bands just have to do as part of the job . film critic rodger ebert once said the rock video is `` empty . '' here , they are n't so much empty as new order 's music is so good , just pointless . i find myself almost angry that a beautiful song such as `` ceremony '' would have such a terrible video like this ( incidently , i do not know what the viewer below is talking about ... there is no original version of the `` ceremony '' video ... just this thing ) . an aweful , unwatchable piece of useless garbage featuring a fellow walking around with a trashbag on his head . i guess that is a reference to the thought process of music video directors . not sure what else it could be . i could only stomach 40 seconds of this filth . i 'm afraid after listening to this tune for more than ten years , both joy division 's and new order 's ... the images in mine and in other musician 's heads will have to do . unwatchable . trash . the new `` tempation '' video ... .embarrasing . watch their concert videos , go see them live or better yet , think for yourself . there are a few winners ... '' confusion '' is a classic and a great video as well as little bit of music history . `` perfect kiss '' is cool but i 've seen it enough and life is short . `` touched by the hand of god '' is very funny..but ..again..life is short . the only thing i had n't seen before and actually kind of liked was the gina birch `` crystal '' ..that was a slightly cool workday music industry bit . not important art in anyway ... .but better than franz fernidad peeing on an art gallery wall like the nazis used to do . videos ? as for the documentary on the other disc . this is much better but is almost 13 years old . there are some excellent joy division clips here . why do n't we have a full dvd of all the joy division footage in the world yet ? you get many of the same videos on the other disc played in full again on this disco too..in case you 're someone like me who hated them enough the first time . some great stuff , a bit of live joy division , great early live versions of 'blue monday '' , `` tempation '' ..and yes.. '' ceremony '' . the interviews are great as new order speaks like real musicians and their collaborators are an interesting bunch making up a lot of what urban nightlife music culture has been from the late seventies until today on both sides of the atlantic .