this loosely disguised `` show '' is nothing but a mouthpiece for the liberal agenda of broken marriages , pedophilia , & infidelity ! ! this series which presumptuously celebrates and brags about the sodomite lifestyle , feminism and the destruction of the nuclear , traditional family is one of the worst , most inexcusably heinous shows currently disgracing the tv landscape -- although that is n't saying much since the ruinous , liberal ideology has for the longest time monopolized pop culture . this desperate housewives series is rebukable on several , equally critical fronts . the first and most infamous is by far its moral vileness ; the second is its horrid status as a mouthpiece for incriminatingly liberal `` values '' ; the third is its low class cast of monotonous , expressionless actors ; and the fourth is its either appallingly repetitive plot twists or its idiotically ludicrous tangents it goes off on when it needs to `` freshen '' its stale storyline . at the first season 's start , the viewer is mistreated to the basic concept : mary alice commits suicide , and this sets off the looming , boring storyline about the other four , remaining housewives `` intellectually '' attempting to solve her death for the rest of the season . at this point , the traditional and moderate american has already been subordinated to the liberal culture war where a family is left motherless with the death of mary alice . liberals love to assault the traditional family with all their sick , `` alternative '' debaucheries , and the show endorses this through the removal of mary alice ( mother ) from her family , where we only have a dad/son left . later on , the assault on the traditional family is worsened when the noble concept of adoption is attacked as the real mother of mary alice 's son is revealed to have been killed by her adoptive parents , mary alice and paul young . this show is nothing but a disguise of an assault on the traditional family . other families include the divorcee ( teri hatcher ) whose husband is blamed for the infidelity that ruined their marriage ; flagrantly , feminism is viciously alive on this show as hatred is directed to men . another is the van de kamp family which egregiously loathes itself since the parents are trapped in an apparently loveless marriage , while one kid is a flaming , budding sodomite and the other is an uncontrollable villain . the next family involves the felicity huffman character whose troubles raising her purportedly add/hyperactive children derogates the concept of raising kids . the dislike towards the male gender is furthered as her husband comes home to be a demeaning , stay-at-home dad since his wife gets the bigger paycheck -- an abnormality which rarely if ever happens in real life ! ! ! ! the last family is the most accursed as this depraved show celebrates pedophilia , through the eva longoria character preying on the high-school kid ( john ) , and also infidelity while she rapes him . by the rock-solid and sentencing examples above , it 's clear that the incorrigible theme of desperate housewives is the single-minded and malevolent attack and belittlement of the traditional family . this can not be defied ; only if you 're a moral relativist who practices pc can you excuse this mischievous show as something that merely serves as entertainment . the culprit for the mercilessly dissolute topics of unwholesomeness is the creator of the show , one marc cherry . cherry is a shamelessly , openly gay sodomite , and his `` alternative '' ( read : irreligious ) lifestyle choices are egregiously what influence him to slant the show in such morally bankrupt misdirection . using basic common sense , we see cherry 's sodomite lifestyle influencing all the show 's plot twists , as cherry likely harbors much , personal resentment towards the traditional family , which likely but rightly shunned his choice of an unorthodox , sodomite lifestyle . when cherry manufactures these scripts about bree van de kamp 's son being a closet homosexual who rebels , this blatantly is about cherry 's own , frustrated childhood . when cherry writes about all the marriages breaking up , this is merely his thinly veiled bitterness at marriage being protected from sodomite unions recognized legally . to boot , this show 's acting by the four , enormously over-the-hill and washed-up fortysomethings is just unpardonable . hatcher acts like the ditzy buffoon ; longoria is the slutty tramp ; cross is the pasty-skinned robot with no emotion ; sheridan desperately shows off her forty-plus body ; and huffman acts like the frumpy housewife . their `` performances '' ( read : monotonous impersonations of people ) are repetitive and abnormally rehearsed . in conclusion , desperate housewives is one of the worst , most irreparable shows to come out of un-american and liberal hollywood in years . it -- under the moral relativist-guise of entertainment -- unaccountably celebrates profanity and misconduct to the extreme , and it attacks one of judeo-christian america 's most revered institutions : the traditional family . the show is a ghastly train wreck which relies dependently on one crazy plot twist after another to keep the viewer lured because it can not do so based on storyline , character development and interest alone . one severely suspects that it was created merely to scornfully give some bored , lonely housewives hypothetical situations which they will never find themselves in to alleviate their stay-at-home monotony .