so ... ... ... ... ... boring ... ... ... ... ... . here are some interesting facts relating to `` heat '' and myself : length of film : 547 minutes number of characters in film : 231 number of interesting occurrences : 0 number of minutes i was involved/entertained by this film : 0 number of times i 've started watching this film , then stopped : 5-6 truth be told , i 've never actually watched `` heat '' in its entirety . i 've seen almost all of it , and many parts of it multiple times , but never all the way through . ( in fact , i think i probably have seen absolutely all of it , considering how many scenes i distinctly recall seeing repeatedly , but i ca n't be sure . ) anyway , i 'll be sitting there trying to watch it and i just ca n't do it . it 's so damn boring , and the thought of me being this bored for the next 8 hours is just too much and i have to do something else . like randomly flip through the channels for the next couple hours . maybe just stare at the walls and think . mow the lawn , perhaps . do some dishes . clip my toe nails . anything . ( i hasten to add , however , that its extreme length is n't really `` heat '' s problem . it 's all boring . cut it down to 100 minutes and it would still be really boring , just not for as long . which would make it about twice as good , actually , but we 're talking about such a small baseline that the difference would n't be terribly perceptible . ) and it 's not like this thing is n't up my alley . people i trust and who have good taste tell me it 's good and i like crime-dramas . it has a generally excellent cast . but then i 'll be looking at the screen and not one thing , not one thing will happen that makes me want to keep looking at it . and so i stop . i 'd like to be more specific , but it 's pretty damn hard to say why a film is n't involving . it 's tough to describe a lack . probably it has something to do with the film having so much going on that it does n't really have time to get into anything . i especially like how pacino 's stepdaughter tries to off herself , yet we 've only seen her on screen for like 2 minutes . why would i care ? pacino 's marriage is failing , you say ? why would i care ? pacino and de niro have tedious conversations with one another . oh boy . it 's also hurt by their making pacino a cop . he does n't much work as a good guy . furthermore , the action scenes are dull as hell . also , one of the major themes of the film is about how cop and robber are two sides of the same coin . for other examples of this see every other cop drama ever made , particularly the ones that suck . ( this observation , by the way , comes from the film `` adaptation '' , and though it did n't specifically refer to `` heat '' it totally applies . on a related note , `` the 3 '' would be about 1000 times more entertaining than `` heat '' , were someone to make it . if you do n't know what i 'm talking about , be sure to check out `` adaptation '' . it 's a good example of a film that is n't really sucky and boring . ) unlike some things i dislike i feel no animosity towards those who think `` heat '' is great , though i ca n't help but suspect that many of them were expecting a great movie , and so they got one at least in their heads . it 's got pacino and de niro together ! it 's so damned long , complicated , self-important and humorless ! it superficially resembles great films from the past ! 4 stars ! ! i realize that this is unfair of me and i hate it when other people try and explain the hidden , false meanings why i like whatever movie they do n't like , but it 's what i think , and if that makes me a hypocrite , which it does , well , i ca n't change that . and besides , it 's always possible that i 'm right ... . if in 20 years `` heat '' is largely forgotten we can assume that i 'm correct . if not i 'll watch it again , this time all the way through , and we 'll see if i 've changed my mind , and we 'll finally know if everyone else was deluded or if i 'm just a stupid freak who differed from most of the other wise viewers on this one . get back to me in 2026 . perhaps we 'll have to make it 2031 , cause the idea of me watching any of this movie again within the next 2 decades makes me a bit antsy . i need some more breathing room . but til then , the hell with `` heat '' . i 'll just watch `` taxi driver '' or `` the godfather '' or `` goodfellas '' or `` the departed '' or whatever again . just about anything will do , actually , regardless of quality or genre as long as it 's shorter than `` heat '' .