pretty woman meets toxic tort even though i would agree that `` erin brockovich '' is an entertaining movie , julia roberts performance in it is no more oscar-worthy than was her performance of a prostitute in `` pretty woman . '' i am second to no one in enjoying a good `` david and goliath '' story , but this movie has such shaky roots in reality , it is more of a tall tale , than the `` true '' story of a historic class action suit that , i would imagine , left more unhappy plaintiffs , than it did satisfied ones . however , as the movie title implies , this is indeed erin brockovich 's story , in the same way that the `` xena '' character is the main attraction in `` xena : warrior princess '' ( though it should be noted that xena 's wardrobe is considerably more modest than that of the erin brockovich character ) . erin brockovich is a vain , brassy , boorish , single mother of three young children , with no marketable work skills , a transparently opportunistic manner , who dresses very much the same way as the prostitute character roberts played in `` pretty woman '' ( prior to richard gere 's character taking her on the infamous rodeo drive shopping spree ) . the movie 's beginning finds erin unemployed and pursuing a personal injury lawsuit in connection with an automobile accident ; her lawsuit is lost , primarily thanks to her own disastrous testimony ( swearing , cursing and shrieking from the witness stand ) while being questioned by opposing counsel . unbelievably , erin parlays the failed lawsuit into a job at her attorney 's ( played by albert finney ) firm , mainly by pushing her way into the office and ensconcing herself at a desk . later , while handling the paperwork for a run-of-the-mill , pro bono , real estate sale , erin discovers the file contains the seller 's medical records , that , for reasons she ( correctly ) does not understand , seem to be of particular interest to the buyer , the mega utility company , pacific gas and electric . erin independently embarks on her own personal investigation of the case and discovers that pg & e had ( for decades ) negligently contaminated the ground water ( surrounding one of their power plants in/near hinkley , ca on the edge of the mojave desert ) with toxic , hexavalent chromium . this discovery leads to the queen mother of all class-action lawsuits ( at least in terms of the award ) , in which hundreds of hinkley residents sue pg & e ( by and through the representation of erin 's boss ) in a toxic tort action that eventually nets a 330 million dollar settlement for the plaintiffs . roberts gives a photogenic , if not especially gifted , performance in her role as erin . the movie contains a plethora of flattering shots of roberts ( literally gushing out skin-tight , low-cut , bustier-inspired `` work clothes '' that would never be permissible attire for any employee of a law firm on this planet ) as she engages in warm and fuzzy discourses with the unsuspecting and unsophisticated hinkley residents . while there is much to be said for erin 's apparent drive and tenacity as she pursues the plaintiffs in the suit , she is not an especially likeable character ; rather , she is rude , verbally abusive and only conciliatory and kind when and if it serves her interests . albert finney is considerably more appealing and believable as ed masry , the aged and weary attorney who is erin 's boss . the bantering that occurs between the two is generally amusing ; unfortunately thanks to the inept direction and camera work , the focus for these scenes seems to be more on roberts ( strutting about in short leather skirts and noisy , five-inched-heeled mules ) than on the sometimes-interesting personality dynamics that seemingly exists between the two characters . aaron eckhart plays the affable , gentle biker and next-door-neighbor , george , who becomes erin 's boyfriend-by-convenience . the `` convenience '' factor is totally one-sided and for erin 's benefit exclusively ; she unabashedly uses george for free , live-in childcare , thereby giving her the necessary freedom to assist masry as they put together the historic case . erin eventually winds up receiving a staggering two million dollar `` bonus '' check ( from masry ) when the tort action case settles ; contrastingly , george gets a `` thanks '' for his nanny services from erin and his walking papers . the plaintiffs in the case are an assortment of simple individuals with unpretentious outlooks on life , who have been dealt a dirty hand by the utility giant . though the hinkley residents are sympathetically portrayed , make no mistake-this movie is about erin brockovich ( indeed , i do not think there is a single scene in which the chacracter is not present ) and less about the brave struggles with life-threatening , generation-spanning illnesses that the real-life plaintiffs were forced to face , due to the toxicity in their water source . erin brockovich is presented to the viewing audience ( in typical hollywood fashion ) as a sort of heroine ; but in fairness it would seem more accurate to say that she was a woman who indiscriminately used people , walked on others when necessary and seized opportunity after opportunity until she eventually struck it lucky and got rich . is the movie entertaining-absolutely . inspiring- not even slightly .