needs even more creativity i had high hopes for requiem of darkness since it had a dark atmosphere to it . also , the characters looked very unique and intriguing . unfortunatley , the beginning is very rough , both in content and speed of the show . the plot is about a writer who wants to create a book of horror stories . he is always interested in cursed places and people with bad omens hanging over their head . he meets up with a gang of three people with dark powers who murder the murderers , and immediately becomes their intrusive groopy . unfortunately , the show is not as slick as the plot sounds . the first episode immediately starts off with the story-telling . it is centered upon a man who murdered a talented child for he was jealous . throughout the episode , you see the man going insane with guilt and hearing strange noises . the problem is nothing interesting is revealed about any of the main characters and some of the events feel rushed and confusing without the nice introductions of who 's who . the second episode i found more enjoyable since it was unique . it is about a man with a hotel protected by the willow woman . the willow womanis infatuated with the owner and killed all of his wives and children . it even has a little plot twist , nothing extrodinary but still welcoming . and once again , the third and fourth episodes deal with insane murders . this is when the show became boring for me . i do find crazy murders interesting to read and watch about , but i like to have more variety if this is what the who show is going to be about . also , the show 's trick of using violence and paranoia to be scary lost its buzz by the end of the dvd . i give it an extra star since one episode is decent and the character design is great . unfortunately , the show left me unsatisfied since the main people of the show were n't the main focus of these first few episodes . maybe the next few volumes will be more creative and give more details on the main plot , but i personally do n't care to spend anymore of my money on such a risk . one last note : this show has very intense adult content . do n't make the assumption that the rating is over exxagerated for it definitely is not . actually , i personally thought the rating was too low for this show