what a soundtrack . too bad the movie could n't keep up . this movie is one of cinema history 's seminal examples of a soundtrack carrying a movie to success . `` saturday night fever '' from a few years before is another example , but that movie could actually stand on its own . jennifer beales ' torn neck sweater and table dancing routine aside , i do n't think this one could . i understand this movie is near and dear to the hearts of a lot of 80 's children , and i will agree this is one of the all-time great soundtracks of cinema . the problem is , the movie 's plot is a slow-moving , wasted opportunity . physically , beales is sexy enough to keep your attention , and her portrayal of working-class girl in a man 's job striving to express herself was a pretty novel idea when this movie was made . but her unsympathetic personality and mediocre acting undermine her character . come to think of it , the acting all around is a bit weak . but that 's not the problem . the movie suffers from two fatal let-downs . the first is the plot itself . feminism-affirming depictions aside , it 's pretty simplistic , unimaginative stuff , even for a dance movie . what 's worse is how slow it all moves . the drama sequences in-between dances drag on , straining your patience and sympathy for the character 's plights . the other more tragic flaw , since it is a movie about dance , is the cinematography . while it 's certainly not the worst cinematography ever , ( check out `` the limey '' next time you want a headache . ) the dance sequences look like they 've been salvaged from scraps on the cutting room floor . we 're supposed to be moved by beales ' character 's natural talent , but for most of the movie we never get to see her do much except walk and pose in a crazy mashup of bad edits . by the time the final dance scene finally comes along , the drama of her audition performance is ruined by drawn-out , bad editing . it almost seems the judges let her into juliard simply because she was able to stay in the air for longer than a minute . perhaps i 'm a purist for asking for good dancing onscreen to consist of more than rapid-fire editing . but if it 's a movie about dancing , one would think the least they could do is show dancing . many movies before and after flashdance managed to get this right ( `` saturday night fever '' certainly did , to its great success ) , but maybe nobody told this movie 's director . it 's a shame