never achieving its goal i 'll be right up front and admit that i do not own this dvd . i hesitated writing a review for it because of that fact . but then i realized that if you 're reviewing a dvd , 90 % of the review must be based on the movie itself , and having saw the movie when it was released , and having seen it again on the various cable channels , i felt i could write a respectable reveiw . frankly , the movie barely approaches a `` b-movie '' status . it 's only claim to fame is that it was the first major hollywood motion picture that did not portray homosexuals in a bad light . the plot is rather unbelievable , naming the fact that all three main characters are leaders in their field ... . successful author , high-ranking network producer , top-rate doctor . nobody has a profession , or is in a position , with which the audience can relate . the dialog is forced and , at times , rather cliche . acting is acceptable , though supporting cast members are rather amateurish . direction is functional , at best . one glaring problem is the tendency for the movie to suddenly switch from drama to documentary . after or before key scenes , the camera cuts to a monologue from one of the main characters . the effect is startling , does n't advance the story , and only serves to distract the viewers and lessen the already-weak emotional impact of the film . to its credit , the actors did whole-heartedly portray gay characters and gay love scenes . at the time , gay characters were never portrayed in a positive light from the media , and it was a great risk to do so here . there were no previous movie experiences of this topic that the director and actors were able to draw on , and they did the best they could . it was a very ambitious project and was supposed to be ground-breaking and revolutionary , but the weaknesses in the film never raised it high enough to truly make much of a difference in society . this is absolutely proven by the fact that brokeback mountain , released about two decades later , had to work very hard to break the same stereotypes that making love previously attempted to break . the difference is that brokeback mountain was a true work of art impeccable in its execution and actually broke ground and stereotypes , and making love all but disappeared in the annals of time . if you 're a collector of good film , this really would n't be part of your collection . to add into a collection of films showing early portrayals of homosexuals and homosexual relationships , it would be very appropriate . sadly , it really is good for only that one reason , as part of a collection of gay films throughout the years