not brave enough an english teacher 's review . to my fellow educators : i have just finished spending the better part of an afternoon watching all three film versions of `` treasure island . '' i 've seen the version with charlton heston , the one with jack palance and the 1950 disney version . it is my unpleasant duty to report that a proper film of `` treasure island '' has apparently not yet been made , as all three were so abysmally bad that i was unable to finish them . what no director has yet come close to capturing , is the relentless grandeur with which the book itself unfolds , and the simple directness of stevenson 's 19th century morality tale . without exception , all three of these films seem to flounder in a sea of confusion about what this book should actually be ; and none of them seem to have even the tiniest jot of the kind of vision displayed by classic illustrators such as wythe . again and again with each film , someone seems to have made the decision that the story exactly as told by stevenson apparently would n't be interesting enough or exciting enough for the big screen . what i really want to know is if any of these directors actually read the book , or had a personal relationship with it ? i find it hard to believe that they did , since the films all give the impression of slapdash commercialism or outright confusion about what the book actually is . jim hawkins is living quietly with his parents in a seaside inn , when the captain shows up with his sea chest and a mysterious fear of `` a seafaring man with one leg . '' the captain should be tall , mysterious , powerful and terrifying . in two of these films , he seems to be played by short wrinkled winos ; and in the third by some middle-aged guy who is apparently married to the lighting director 's sister . it only gets worse from there . the tragedy of the captain is that he is still physically vigorous and imposing at the start of the book - but stevenson is bringing a doom to him that will shatter even the english oak of his adamant constitution - the combined forces of rum , terror and stroke . the captain 's fate - to fall dead of a `` thundering apoplexy '' on the floor of the inn , forshadows the essential purpose of stevenson 's novel - to illustrate that a life of bloodthirsty avarice and short-sighted greed leads only to an ignominious death . in the guise of a boy 's adventure story , stevenson pursues this deeper moral with a terrible purpose and with great dignity and power . his pirate characters are not comic or lighthearted . they are not caricatures . they are not the wax mannequins of a disney ride ; they are real men with fears and desires and second thoughts ; even with regrets . they do not dance or traipse merrily through this story - they grimace and battle through it , gritting their teeth against the death , ( from violence , sickness , treachery or rum , ) that is always staring them in their faces . jim hawkins ' innocence and youth is the perfect foil for the pirates ' hard-bitten cynicism and gold-lust . it is no accident that , despite the courage and resourcefulness of the cabin party , ( led by captain smollett , ) it is still only jim hawkins ' youthful optimism and curious spirit that ultimately saves them from `` death at the hands of the pirates . '' stevenson is alluding to the biblical command to `` be like the little children in order to be saved . '' to tell this story properly , it must be told absolutely straight , and with the same committed earnestness with which stevenson tells it . none of these films is that brave . to make a film that is faithful to stevenson 's moral , the director will need more courage and simplicity of purpose than we find in all three of these films combined . those of us who love and understand the novel for what it is must continue to hope for a film that does it justice .