not so super in an era of batman begins , sin city , spiderman , and 300 , it 's easy to forget that there was a time when a movie based on a comic book was n't a sure thing . for an example of a spectacular misfire , spawn comes to mind ; the movie was so obsessed with making the film look like a comic book that it actually felt like you were watching a comic book , complete with isolated panels , minimal movement , and jarring transitions between scenes . one moment spawn 's threatening some guy and the next he 's standing on some building with his really fabulous cloak whipping in the wind . similarly , superman is a visually beautiful movie that has nowhere to go . the iconic scenes of superman basking in the sun 's rays , or hovering about the earth listening for crime , or when he 's actually doing something heroic ( which happens far too infrequently ) fail to cover up the complete lack of a coherent plot . for example : superman 's been gone for years ... one assumes that whatever he discovered on his long journey would have something to do with the plot . nope . lex luthor has discovered superman 's fortress of solitude and plans to create an entire continent out of a hybridized kryptonite . surely that means superman wo n't even be able to get near the place , right ? nope . once said `` continent '' shows up , it 's clear that the whole thing is patently uninhabitable . this is lex 's big plan , to create a rock formation and play cards while he waits for ... people to call him and offer him money or something ? surely he must have more up his sleeve ? nope . heck , the world 's changed a lot since superman 's been gone , right ? would n't it make sense to really pound home how different earth is , with it 's global warming , crazy politics , and pop starlets ? nope . instead , the crazy new world is supposed to be summed up with a kid taking a picture of superman with his cell phone -- that 's right , the kid scooped the daily planet with just his camera phone ! is n't that wacky ? superman returns is very much a movie in love with the original and , while visually faithful , it 's a very poor imitation . yes , brandon routh looks like a spitting image of christopher reeves , but he has no real acting chops to display since he barely speaks . kate bosworth is far too young and whiny as lois lane , jimmy olsen ( sam huntington ) still wears a bowtie for some reason , and the rest of the cast is too caught up in being iconic comic book characters to be memorable . even the amazing kevin spacey can only be a marginally cartoonish lex luthor , jarringly transforming into a murderous thug at the movie 's climax . the pacing is all wrong . superman saving lois from a plane crash is great . superman fighting criminals with belt-fed chain guns is excellent . superman drowning , superman moping , superman frustrated over lois lane , superman convalescing in a friggin ' hospital ? not great . superman returns has its moments , and if you squint your eyes it almost feels like the magic from the first movie has been captured . but then it 's gone and the movie drags , and drags , and drags . superman has been co-opted to be a christ-like father-son parable and on the way bryan singer forgot what made the first superman movie so great : it was fun ! i could have made a better movie with my camera phone .