pretentious , boring , political , un-real thirteen year olds can be easily impressed by cheap tricks , `` heartfelt '' lyrics , and a lot of pretty lights . so it goes with some reviewers of this movie . this movie contains the unending internal reflections of about 6 or 7 different characters . these reflections never really go anywhere , never draw substantive conclusions . primarily , there is just a lot of whining . the only exception is the sean penn character until the end , when he whines at least as much as everybody else . `` war is tough '' is one of the main themes of this movie . is that really a revelation ? one thing you learn early on in acting or directing classes is to `` play opposites , '' meaning put contrasting things in juxtaposition so that the contrast highlights both sides . an example is when a very evil character such as richard iii uses humor . `` i 'll have her - but not for long . '' the fact that the guy is joking about killing his new bride makes him all the more evil to us . at the same time , perhaps we ca n't avoid laughing in spite of ourselves . ok , so this director had some of the same classes i did , but he has to use the technique over and over and over and over and over and ... until it starts seeming boring and banal . war scene , lots of dying . oh look , a pretty butterfly ! more blood and bullets . oh gee , the light going through that leaf is beautiful ! use this trick once or twice and maybe it seems new to the uninitiated audience . use it more than three times and you are asking for trouble . this director must use it 10-15 times . he turns it into a cliche . when the audience can predict when they are about to see the next opposite , you have overdone it . so what do we have so far ? a bunch of whining character crying about war being bad and a bunch of contrast scenes . and really , that 's pretty much it . the movie could have been cut in half with no loss because if there is one thing this movie is , it is redundant . it is spoon-feeding you the same message over and over and over again . ouch , war hurts ! ew , mutilated bodies are yucky . oh gosh , a little bird got hurt ! ! ! we are so nasty ! we must stop this war ! ! ! ( never mind the fact that thousands of little birds get eaten alive by cats every day ) the director focuses on the yucky and inconvenient aspects of war - which i suppose would be briliant , except i think almost everybody on the planet already knows that wars are yucky and inconvenient . it 's almost as if the author does n't believe we know , that he somehow thinks we missed it . and if only he reminds us at every possible repetitive opportunity , again and again and again , well , then maybe we will `` get it '' and start opposing wars , i guess . never mind about hitler and the 6 million jews . never mind about pearl harbor . war is a yucky thing done by bad men , or nice whimpy men trapped in a situation by bad men . it has no meaning and there is nothing remotely noble about it . we were just wasting our time fighting the nazis . the nazis were just misunderstood ! if they want to cook 6 million jews in the ovens , let them do it . an adult movie deals with realties and poses questions like , `` how do i get myself to do something that i do n't want to do , but that i know i should ? '' making yourself do things that are not pleasant is one of the hallmarks of reaching adulthood . this movie takes a very adolescent perspective and asks , `` if i whine enough , can i get out of my chores ? '' the dumbest scene in this movie is when the jim caveziel character is surrounded by japanese and for no reason whatsoever , will not surrender . he stands there in the middle of about 40 japanese soldiers and decides ( after looking at some pretty leaves and butterlies ) to raise his weapon so they will shoot him . the funny thing is , it 's completely unnecessary : his comrades have already been warned . his death accomplishes nothing but relief for the audience - he can no longer utter his inane internal monologues . i think if you are a left-winger or have a thing for looking at the bodies of naked boys , you will love this movie . it 's the kind of propaganda piece that a vacant , unquestioning mind will eat up . if your leanings are more adult , however , you may hate it . you 'll wonder why the story is so one-sided , why nobody seems to believe in the causes they are fighting for , even though the japanese did attack us , and the germans did some naughty things too . none of that seems to matter to the storyteller . `` why ca n't we all get along ? '' he cries , as the germans load another group of jews into the ovens and turn up the heat ... a final note : if you want to see two really good war movies that make valid criticisms of the `` war spirit '' and how wars are conducted , see `` gallipoli '' and/or `` breaker morant . '' these movies are extremely effective in making their points without using cartoonish characters . the characters are real and the plots move the story foreward . `` the thin red line '' is what i would call `` professed brilliance . '' a couple of simple tricks are used to try to impress the audience . but there is no real meat here . it 's just a bunch of pointless whining . the poetry is poorly written and pretentious . and the characters are not real .