water-logged whew ! after reading other reviewer 's remarks , i 'm glad to see i was not the only one who thought this movie was crap . the cinematography is great , and the look ( art direction ) is authentic . i too had trouble following the double-storyline . just when i started to get interested in the modern-day story , the action cut back to the past . i do n't know if it was poor choices during the editing processes or what . i have seen many other movies that use flashback and dual-timeline stories . none of those were this boring . by the time you get to discover the real truth behind the century-old murders , you really do n't care anymore . and i do n't see how the climactic storm at sea resolves the modern-day storyline . in terms of casting , i have to agree with the other reviewers : why cast two british actress as the modern-day leads . to me , the character of jean should 've been played with either an american actress ( or at least a british or australian actress with an american accent ) instead of catherine mccormick . i also could n't begin to identify with the character . she seems so obsessed over this murder but completely inarticulate when discussing it ( unless that 's the point ) . sean penn sits around and broods as her husband , a has-been poet . josh lucas and elizabeth hurley ( as sean penn 's brother and the brother 's girlfriend ) really do n't have much to do except add some eye candy ( josh for the ladies , and elizabeth for the guys , and believe me , i kept wanting to see more of her in the bathing suit -- with and without the top ) . some say josh lucas 's acting is a bit wooden and stiff in this role ; i say he has nothing to work with : the character is just there to steer the boat and give hurley backrubs . he has no real personality quirks and lucas works best when he plays someone who 's a bit flawed ( he is a rare case of a character actor who has leading-man good looks but bland roles do n't suit him ) . sean penn , on the other hand , looks like he 's sleepwalking through half the movie . his alcoholic poet seems more like he 's stoned on prozac ; there 's no passion , even when he quotes dylan thomas . i think this was a miscasting ; he 's not sympathetic either . ( spoiler alert : his character 's fate during the storm is almost deserved ; one can not feel sympathy for him . ) the story set in the last century is much more interesting but because of the cut-up flashbacks , one does n't hold interest . sarah polley is a good actress , but her moping around -- `` oh , i 'm stuck in a loveless marriage , and i really want to sleep with my brother again , '' attitude gets old . yes , dear viewers , i gave away another spoiler : incest . the other actors that play in the murder mystery story ( aside from polley and the great ciaran hinds as the wrongly accused murderer ) are all scandinavian and i 've never heard of any of them before . they do a good job with the material they 're given , but it 's hard to connect with them as well . perhaps this is one of those movies that you grow to like after repeated viewings . once was enough for me . perhaps you also need to read the original anita shreve novel before you watch it . if so , i understand the movie is quite the literal adaptation . this may be its biggest flaw : novels can be cinematic in their themes , imagery and their dialogue ; they become water-logged when one tries to adapt the same style in telling two contrasting stories . it also helps that when reading a novel with two story lines , it 's much easier to go back and re-read parts of it , when the action gets confusing .