mozart et prokofiev in concert , a loud disappointment ... reading a review of her canadian debut in vancouver on april 29 , 2007 , one would imagine that a rousing standing ovation greeted ms. de la salle 's performance , hardly the polite slow rising one she received . ms. de la salle credentials are impeccable , so impeccable that the cd pitch came before the recital not even at intermission : simply put , we had to like it or else ... and the reviewer , not surprisingly , proceeded from the same line of thought . juxtaposing classical mozart and neoclassical prokofiev set the stage for an interesting programme indeed ! i concede that the recital started well and the sonata offered some nice moments although slightly contrived : it was the art of representation as opposed to the art of transformation i.e . the feelings portrayed were acted not lived . granted , a teenager wo n't have mr. brendel 's experience . virtuosity is a blessing but could also become a curse : in her case this led to exaggerating every move , fast or slow , breaking the classical pulsation . this out of style mozart culminated with the rondo which became openly romantic chopin like , quite surprising for a paris conservatory pupil . the final mozart piece `` ah vous dirais-je maman ... '' variations kept on pressing the same obvious style where delicacy , grace and tenderness were absent . by now one was looking towards prokofiev for relief as it was becoming increasingly evident ms. de la salle had nothing new to add to her heavy handed mozart . ms. de la salle sound is forced rarely graceful . her shoulders are tense because she presses on keys a lot instead of controlling the hand weight with a free arm . thus it was no surprise she muscled her way through prokofiev . the sonata became an intellectual exercise , virtuosic and abstract . but it is the romeo and juliet suite that exacerbated the misgivings of ms. de la salle forceful approach . romeo and juliet , a tender love story set in a backdrop of violence and family feud immortalized on the silver screen by zeffirelli . prokofiev 's brilliant music reflects this classic tale and offers soaring moments of absolute beauty . well , ms. de la salle rendition offered none of this . her insistence to over blow musical traits led her to almost lose it during the syncopated `` montagues and capulets '' renowned theme . moreover , slow movements were painfully lacking colors and dramatic tension as her sound faded quickly , failing to carry her thoughts . the audience mind wandered away , lost count of the movements , and applauded too early or too late ... finally , it was an understandably tired soloist who concluded with a rough toccata . at 14 ms. de la salle in her first recording revealed a promising talent . her second cd did not confirm as bach , like mozart last night , was treated romantically . her emphasis on the right hand melody at the detriment of counterpoint betrays a rather homophonic hearing . it is truly sad to see how a brutal rise to fame can damage the blooming of a precocious talent and one wishes her to meet a teacher truly interested in freeing her from this over hyped mono dimensional impasse . she would then become the voice the media claims she already is .