guitares héros mais à la fin guitares zéros ce concert est réellement un des tous meilleurs de jeff beck car il joue un set plus rock que d'habitude avec une pêche de folie et la prise de son est japonaise c'est à dire parfaite mais 2 étoiles seulement ( 1 pour jeff et 1 pour carlos ) malgré la qualité fantastique des images c'est vraiment n'importe quoi puisque le show commence avec santana qui ne joue que 3 morceaux suivi du show de jeff beck avec réunion beck et santana en fin de concert ( 70 minutes en tout ) en vérité voila comment s'est déroulé ce fabuleux concert ( ordre et sets complets ) c'est en fait jeff qui ouvrait pour carlos et non pas l'inverse ! ! ! jeff beck band : 1.intro-starcycle 2 . love will 3 . ambitious 4 . goodbye pork pie hat 5 . stop , look and listen 6 . cause it ended for lovers 7 . escape ( with steve lukather ) 8 . blue wind 9 . wild thing 10.freeway jam ( with steve lukather ) 11.going down ( with steve lukather ) santana : 12.intro-primera invasion 13.victim of circumstance 14 . incident at neshabur/mandela 15 . black magic woman/gypsy queen 16 . oye como va/evil ways/jingo 17 . by the pool/europa 18 . right now ( incomplete ) 19 . open invitation ( with steve lukather ) 20 . songs of freedom 21 . super boogie/hong kong blues ( aka lotus blues ) ( carlos santana , jeff beck band , steve lukather ) 22 . people get ready ( jeff beck band , steve lukather , carlos santana , buddy miles ) 23.johnny b. goode ( jeff beck band , steve lukather , carlos santana , buddy miles , alphonso johnson ) la fin du concert avec les 3 guitaristes réunis ensemble est un pur moment de magie , jam de folie avec `` super boogie '' , `` people get ready '' est d'une telle intensité avec 2 chanteurs jimmy hall et buddy miles et la version de `` johnny b. goode '' est tout bonnement historique , ( heureusement tout cela figure sur le dvd ) sur ce dvd il nous manque presque 50 % de ce concert , dommage car il a dû être filmé par la tv dans son intégralité c'est vraiment à ne plus rien y comprendre du tout ... ||| guitar hero but in the end guitar zeros this concert is truly one of the best of jeff beck because he plays a set more rock than usual with a peach of madness and the sound is japanese that is perfect but only 2 stars ( 1 for jeff and 1 for carlos ) despite the great quality images is really anything since the show began with santana only plays 3 songs followed the show meeting with jeff beck and santana beck-end concert ( 70 minutes total ) in fact here 's how this place was fabulous concert ( order and complete sets ) this is actually jeff opened for carlos and not vice versa ! jeff beck band : 1.intro starcycle-2 . love will 3. ambitious 4. goodbye pork pie hat 5. stop , look and listen 6. cause it ended for lovers 7. escape ( with steve lukather ) 8. blue wind 9. wild thing 10.freeway jam ( with steve lukather ) 11.going down ( with steve lukather ) santana : 12.intro-primera 13.victim invasion of circumstance 14. incident at neshabur / mandela 15. black magic woman / gypsy queen 16. oye como va / evil ways / jingo 17. by the pool / europa 18. right now ( incomplete ) 19. open invitation ( with steve lukather ) 20. songs of freedom 21. super boogie / hong kong blues ( aka lotus blues ) ( carlos santana , jeff beck band , steve lukather ) 22. people get ready ( jeff beck band , steve lukather , carlos santana , buddy miles ) 23.johnny b. goode ( jeff beck band , steve lukather , carlos santana , buddy miles , alphonso johnson ) the end of the concert with the 3 guitarists gathered together is a moment of pure magic , madness jam with `` super boogie , '' `` people get ready '' is of such intensity with 2 singers jimmy hall and buddy miles and the version of `` johnny b. goode '' is simply historical ( fortunately all that is on the dvd ) on this dvd we are missing almost 50 % of this concert shame because it has been filmed by the tv in its entirety is really not to understand anything at all ...