the first of the truly great seasons of seinfeld after two somewhat experimental seasons , seinfeld really began hitting its stride in this third season . it 's really a tribute to the talent that was in front of and behind the cameras on this show that they tweaked the formula for two seasons until near perfect comedy and chemistry was achieved . in `` the library '' we see how the writers make everything come full circle in this show . one of the best one-episode characters in seinfeld 's history , the library detective is an hilariously stubborn old fashioned man who confronts jerry about a missing book from 1971 that was never returned . jerry goes to see his girlfriend at the time to see if he returned the book , only to find that he had not . meanwhile , kramer meets a pretty librarian and george sees his brown toothed underwear pulling gym teacher , who now is a bum living under the steps of the nyc public library . the old man has n't changed much , and he gives george yet another wedgie . also , the library book turned out not to be just a red herring , as it turns out the homeless gym teacher has hung onto it all these years . `` the red dot '' is a hilarious example of how george can not just leave well enough alone - he always has to push everything to its limits . elaine gets the long out-of-work george a job at the publishing company for which she works . everything would be back on track for george , but he just ca n't resist having sex in the office with the cleaning lady . the cleaning lady takes the encounter more seriously than george does , and george is afraid she 'll tell his boss of the encounter and get him fired . he decides to give her a gift , a cashmere sweater that has been deeply discounted because of a tiny red dot on it that is supposedly too small to see yet each of its recipients spot it almost immediately , including the cleaning lady . she informs on george , and he is out of work once again . the season finale , `` the keys '' , sets up the emmy winning fourth season . kramer has been abusing his house priveleges in jerry 's apartment too much , so jerry revokes his spare key privileges . realizing that he has broken the `` covenant of the keys '' gives kramer the realization he is now free to break out of his routine . kramer takes off for california to follow his dream of becoming an actor . jerry gave his spare keys to elaine , then when he needs them , he goes with george to elaine 's to search for his spare set , since george has elaine 's spare keys . what they find is elaine 's show-biz project , an episode of murphy brown that she has written . elaine finds the two going through her stuff and in turn revokes george 's spare key priveleges . kramer finds adventure as he journeys across the country to la where he gets a bit part on murphy brown playing her secretary . the next season picks up on the gang trying to locate kramer in california . i highly recommend this season as the first season of seinfeld where everything seems to be clicking both storywise and character-wise . it 's not a show where you need any background from previous seasons , since , after all , it is `` a show about nothing '' . however , i found it helpful to view the first two seasons first to see how everything came together