a magnificent performance of trane 's masterpiece branford marsalis ' new recording of coltrane 's masterpiece , a love supreme , is superb on many levels . if you 're a fan of trane , and even just luke-warm on branford , i 'm confident you 'll find this to be a very worthwhile purchase . competent but lesser musicians playing als would try to channel trane and the classic quartet . not branford . he is a mature artist with a fully-realized style . he sometimes lovingly quotes trane , or puts his own spin on a trane riff , but he is clearly his own man on this recording of a love supreme . jeff tain watts understands the essence of elvin and elvin 's contribution to als . but , like branford , tain is his own man here . he 's great as a sideman , and plays a great solo at the end of resolution . joey calderazzo - an outstanding pianist who has done excellent and original work with many of today 's top jazz artists - falls into mccoy mode in his first solo , but then plays like himself in his second one . both are great solos , but i think it shows a real maturity and confidence to be yourself rather than emulate the masters when playing their great works . the bassist , eric revis , is very good , but i 'm partial to robert hurst 's performance on branford 's earlier recording of als . it 's worth comparing that earlier performance to the new one . branford first recorded als ten years ago for a cd compilation called `` stolen moments : red , hot & blue '' . that version is much shorter - only about 25 minutes , compared to the full-length version on the new dvd/cd combo . on the older version , branford 's quartet went into the studio , did n't rehearse much ( they were all fine musicians and all knew als ) , and started the tape rolling . it is a wonderful performance , and well-worth having in your collection . but it sounds like they are not trying to record anything original , just to have a fun time playing trane 's music . ( be warned , though , that most of that cd contains acid jazz & hip hop . ) in contrast , the new recording does have a bit more of branford 's personality and interpretation . for example , the chord changes in acknowledgement are clearly different than on trane 's original recording - not so different to be annoying or trite - but different enough to let you know that branford has something new to say . plus , in the 10 years since the earlier recording , branford has grown from a very good but young musician to a true master in his own right , and this is evident on the new recording . the sound & picture quality are phenomenal . i have about a dozen concert dvds covering various genres . this is easily the best sounding & looking of them all . my tv/dvd player is plugged into a mere bookshelf stereo ( albeit a good one ) , and the sound was superb . then , i took the dvd over to a friend 's house who has dolby 5.1 home theater sound , and my god , i thought i was in the club with the musicians ! the picture quality matches the sound quality . i viewed this dvd on a high-definition wide screen tv , and it was really quite thrilling . the dvd includes a bunch of interviews . first is a 30-minute interview between branford and alice coltrane . she talks a lot about trane , his music , his relentless pursuit of perfection , some reminiscing about when he wrote als , and she and branford have interesting exchanges about the nature of jazz and other topics . then there are a bunch of shorter interviews on various aspects of als , including some with michael brecker . i think the interviews are insightful and add value to an already great disc . finally , there 's a brief segment called `` branford casual '' that shows branford walking around town , working out at the gym , practicing some classical music on the soprano , rehearsing with his quartet , and misc backstage tour footage . neat , but not essential . amazingly , you get all this for the price of a cd . and the package includes an audio cd of the concert performance as a bonus !