a look into the life of dale earnhardt not being from the south , and only regularly watching nascar beginning in 1997 , my opinions may not quite be as objective or fact vs. fiction as others . the movie gives us a look into the legendary nascar driver dale earnhardt . starting with his upbringing in a small mill town by a tough as nails father who dies in his prime , ralph , who races the dirt tracks . it was rumored that noone could ever beat ralph when he raced . the story gives us an insight into dales life up to his tragic death on the track , while along the way showing us all the people who were a part of his life and a part of what made him be who he was . from his father , to other racers , his wives and kids , and his special friendship with another driver who perished on the track , neil bonnet . it also shows his reaqaintance with his first son , cary . dale is perplexed to learn that cary also worked in the same mill that his dad and him worked in , making cary a 3rd generation mill worker . it also has a great depiction of dale jr. , how his stubborness as a teenager is met with a wall of eqaulity from his father , and how the two ended up racing together in the end . barry pepper does an excellent job , i feel , of playing the role of the great racer . the cast was done superbly for this movie and given their limited budget , i have to give espn a `` 2 thumbs up '' for their effort in bringing us a great story about a great individual of our time . i always had the assumption dale was a bit of a jerk , a grump , well this movie not only proved that wrong but showed me that the whole track can be filled with grumps when it comes to racing for the next dollar or meal . dale waltrip is portrayed as an arrogant instigator to earnhardt early in his career . the second to last scene in the movie leaves us breathless as it shows the 4th turn on the final lap of the daytona 500 that would ultimately be dale 's last race . the final scene in the movie , outside of the mill , was very fitting , i wo n't give it away so watch it !