britney the real simone did you get a chance to see pacino 's movie `` simone '' ? the premise : hollywood uses a computer program to create and mold the biggest female star ever . it 's pretty obvious ( and has always been ) that britney has very little musical talent , but they molded her into the biggest music icon in 2000 . on this dvd you get a chance to relive her early greatness in videos like `` sometimes '' , `` baby one more time '' , `` oops i did it again '' . those were such wonderful videos ( directed by nigel dick ) . britney looked so beautiful and happy . it 's very shocking to see what that happy little girl became today . nobody would have thought that this squeeqy clean girl would be prancing around hollywood with no panties , on drugs , and shaving her head bald . these video 's are not only entertaining , but they are also a window into the britney transformation . the video `` lucky '' from her oops album in particular is strange , because britney really became the lucky girl ( lost in an image , with nobody there to wake her up ) . by the 3rd album , you can see britney smiling less , becoming more sexually deviant , and singing `` im a slave for you '' . her last album has shocking video 's such as `` everytime '' , where britney dies in the bathtub ( from what looks like suicide ) . sure , she pops out of the tub at the end to let us know she is okay , but it 's still very strange . also contained on this dvd is britney 's unfinished video `` outrageous '' ( from her 4th album ) . britney is totally out of her element in this video , pretending to be a home-girl in the ghetto . she jumps on snoop dog ( the rapper ) and licks his face like catwomen ( from batman 2 ) . that was quite possibly the most disgusting thing i have ever seen . well , britney just got out of rehab , and i hope she will be okay . people on the internet are already betting who will father her next child . aside from what you believe about britney 's lack of talent , she is a human . that 's right , she is n't simone . she is a human , and makes mistakes just like anyone else . she tried to entertain us . the least we can do is give her some sympathy and hope she finds her way .