tru takes on a 2nd season & the plot thickens when tru calling 's pilot started i originally thought , `` well , this show will be cancelled soon '' . it was messy , unoriginal & kinda lame . but that 's how it was supposed to start . then the 2nd episode was more believable & was a little better in every area that pilot lacked ! & from then to the middle of the season , it had its high points & its lows , closure being one of my fav episodes ! then , enter jason priestley as jack , i 'm thinking , why on earth is he on this show ? they must be desperate or something . but his character suddenly started making the show more interesting , things started moving faster & the show became darker , there were more things going on in the episodes & by the finale , tru calling hit its high point ! everything was looking good for the show ! but had they started out that good , maybe fox would 've gave it a better promotion . one of my fav moments is in death becomes her when jack saves harrison 's car by calling the thief 's bluff . & from that moment , you have to know there 's something up with jack . especially after the audience presumably found out that he got a girl to commit suicide by making a phone call to her parents telling them about her constant gambling . & then with some help from tru , davis has to re-find out what he did on day one & tell her that jack also relives days which in the next episode we find out why . he 's there to stop her ! & after getting luc ( mat bomber ) killed , he takes a vacation & hopes that tru will stop saving lives that are suppose to die . but tru does n't give up & when jack comes back , things start getting tricky . perfect storm- 5/5 jack 's return makes it difficult for her to save the life of a cop who died in a white squal but jack sending her back out in the water at night makes it even harder after davis saved her the first time by making a `` phony '' phone call . & davis gets a replacement psychiatrist & things do n't go so well with her . grace- 5/5 jack sets tru up for murder & things hit rock-bottom before they get better for her . in the dark- 4/5 in one of the more obvious deaths for the viewers anyway , tru is forced to figure out who died after a party is thrown by her brother at the morgue . jack keeps tru on her feet & makes her go on a wild goose chase . the last good day- 5/5 my fav episode of tru calling . everything changes when jack gets asked for help from a girl who commited suicide . now the only question was , why ? & why does the relive day feel so cold to tru ? enough- 5/5 tru crosses the line when she tries to save life of her boyfriend jensen as jack tries to stop her & even davis warns her of the reprecussions of saving the life of someone who does n't ask for her help . she should n't be able to choose , it 's up to fate . but she does n't listen & something severe does happen in return . twas the night before xmas , again- 4/5 harrison finds out about his dad 's alliance with jack but before he warn tru , her day restarts . tru reluctantly lets jack help her in solving a murder case possibly after an old cadaver asks for help . it 's an ok ending cause it at least it is n't a cliff hanger but it 's a shame it did n't get a whole season & stupid shows that should n't be around cause their just getting stupid ( cough*the oc*cough ) are still on ? ? ? but fox screwed tru calling , see my review for the first season for more about how ticked off i am at fox , lol . plus some features on the show & i think anyone should get into this show ! the second season could 've been so great had they had a whole season ! these six episodes are worth your money just the same ! a memorable show too bad it was n't given a real chance cause it did become something great !