a lot of confusion over this film i 'm not sure what film frankie flanagan , ross hughes , 'a viewer ' , breandan or elizabeth j. shannon were commenting on , but it does n't seem possible that it was 'bloody sunday ' . ms. shannon , ross hughes and 'a viewer ' seem to think that the film is pro-ira - boy , did they miss the point . as for abe `` starman '' in wva , clearly he does n't even understand the basic facts behind the film . as for roland zwick and gitana3000 , i think they need to gain some experience in accented english . the northern irish dialect is not that hard to understand . heck , go and see a movie set in yorkshire , glasgow or durham - those are difficult accents . it 's a fact of modern realistic filmmaking that when a film is set in northern ireland it 's going to feature northern irish accents - it 's something everyone should be able to deal with . heck , i found the movie 'matewan ' difficult to understand , but i do n't demand subtitles , or that they tone down the accents , for a movie that 's in my own language . instead i learn to understand the variations - it 's not that difficult , and it 's something that stands a person in good stead when he ventures out into the real world . only in us documentaries and news shows do we see subtitles when people are speaking clear and intelligable english . what is it with that ? i mean do people in new york need subtitles when listening to folks from north dakota ? anyway , rant over . this is a great film which gives bloody sunday very evenhanded treatment . perhaps if people saw the film before commenting , and perhaps if they took the time to understand the film before they started to write a review , this film would get fairer reviews . as others here have said , do n't see this movie and think it gives an overview of 'the troubles ' because it does n't . it shows one day when one group of soldiers killed a lot of innocent people - as such it illustrates how poor armies are at keeping the peace - it shows how the british army killed a few of the 365 people it killed during 'the troubles ' . what it does n't show is how brutal the ira , inla & other so-called 'republicans ' ( who killed 2153 people ) or the loyalists ( who killed 1080 ) can be