amazing film if you suspend your disbelief face off is in my opinion an all time classic film , the plot at first glance is fairly ridiculous and unrealistic but it is one of those cases where if you suspend your disbelief you will love this film . john travolta plays sean archer a police detective whose son was accidently killed by castor troy ( nicholas cage ) while attempting to kill archer , who had been tracking him for several years . archer then makes it his lifes ambition to catch troy , and early in the film archer finally catches and apparently kills his man ( troy is in a deep coma afterwards ) , only after he reveals vague details of a chemical attack on l.a. after interviewing his brother pollux troy , they find out there is indeed an attack iminent in l.a , but he will give no details of the location . it is then that the undercover face swap idea is suggested , from this point on archer is played superbly by nicholas cage , who goes into prison to recover info from pollux . the plot dramatically changes when troy awakes fom his coma , after finding a video of the operation and finding his face missing , he calls in a few associates to help him . the doctor who performed the operation on archer then grafts his face onto troy at gunpoint , the few people who knew about the top secret mission are then all killed . from this point on of course castor troy is played by travolta . i wo n't give away any more of the plot but what follows is both hilarious and disturbing , both leading men are superb , but cage perhaps just steals the show , as he gradually becomes trapped in troy 's body ( as archer ) . a great plot , an all star cast and superb acting make this action thriller a classic , like most great action films , there are great high budget chase scenes , hilarious moments ( usually courtesy of travolta as castor troy ) and excellent drama . instead of ridiculing the plot , watch this with an open mind and you will see a superb action film , which i believe to be one of the best of all time