excellent early sean penn movie ... .highly recommended ! ! ! i picked this dvd off the rack as a random selection , mainly because i do n't believe that sean penn has ever appeared in a bad movie ... .and this has got to be one of his best ( even though he was probably still a teenager when it was produced in 1983 ) . he portrays a young delinquent purse snatcher and mugger named mick o'brien , who is rapidly escalating the violence of his crimes . ultimately , during an attempted drug robbery his best friend is murdered and he accidentally runs over the young brother of his bitter enemy , paco moreno ( fairly well portrayed by esai morales ... .he is definitely no sean penn ) . because of his youth , mick is sent to a grim , grimy , violent juvenile detention center presided over by the `` usual suspects '' : inattentive , seemingly deaf guards who allow atrocities to be perpetrated daily and with no consequences ... .prison trustees ( clancy brown portrays one ) who flaunt the rules , sexually abuse at will , and terrorize the inmates ... .and a warden who is a weak , fickle joke . by standing up to the trustees and demonstrating his talents for mayhem and maniacal violence , mick becomes the dominant inmate ... .in effect , ruling the place , until two things happen to challenge him : paco rapes mick 's girlfriend ( revenge for the death of his brother ) and gets sentenced to the same juvenile detention center as mick . they now hate each other more than ever , and are trapped within the same hellish institution ... .you know that something horrific is going to happen . sorry , but if you want to see how this incredible set-up plays out , you 'll have to rent or buy the dvd ... .and i assure you , it will be money well spent . the acting is superb ( sean is incredible , even as a teenager , exuding an undercurrent of barely-controlled violence ) ; the plot is suspenseful and bloody but always makes perfect sense ; the direction , cinematography , sets , sound , etc . are terrific . this is a genuinely excellent movie ... .i give it my highest recommendation .