all tomorrows parties . very interesting documentary of the & quot ; father of pop art & quot ; , a title which some dispute . but , as shy as he was , he was surely it 's most visible and successful creator , who was as well known for his social life of the fabulous 1970 's and '80 's new york , as for his art . i do n't know how interesting this film would be to non-warhol fans , other than a one - look history lesson . but , to me , a bored dreamer in upstate new york in the 1970 's and '80 's , andy warhol represented all that was glittering , creative , and exciting , and this film brought back a now gone time . his life did seem like a non-stop 24 hour creative/ social frenzy , but there was much more to him than that . the sickly , ugly duckling who was at the & quot ; beautiful peoples & quot ; epi-center , if andy was n't there , it just was n't an event ... it 's all here in this film . the underground movies , the & quot ; superstars & quot ; , the campbell soup cans , the factory , his 1968 shooting , studio 54 , ... he had many detractors , ( envy does that ) , and many accused him of turning art into crass commercialism , but this film also talks about the good son and brother , and the generous mentor to young , then on- the- rise artists like keith haring and jean michele basquiat . and the man who attended mass every sunday , and spent almost all holidays feeding the homeless at church of the heavenly rest , something he told few about . he died much too young , and unnecessarily , leaving an estate of multi-millions , and the auction of his beloved , hoarded belongings , held by sothebys , was the media event of the year , bringing in an incredible twenty-six million dollars . for someone who 's been accused of being a charlatan , talentless , manipulator ... , he was incredibly successful , and according to many , the new york city nightlife and culture was never the same . whatever he was , the little nobody who started out with none of the things that make one popular , became one of the twentieth centuries most well known artists and figures . this film is an informative visit to anyone who wants to know his phenomenon , anyone who wants to relive it , or if you just want to get to better know of the unique , talented man , who was no better nor worse than any of us