i am convinced of their importance i initially saw this played on the now defunct trio satellite channel . at the time , i owned a once played copy of doolittle . after hearing all of the commentary on the importance of the pixies to modern music , seeing the powerful ( yet physically still ) nature of their live performance , and seeing some of the music videos for the first time , i was convinced that doolittle was worth a genuine try . yes , the brits in `` gouge '' do some kissing-up , but you can tell ( they 're not actors , after all ) , that it is truly sincere . bowie and bono , while neither one is half the artist of b.f. , do seem especially informed and heart-felt in their analysis and praise . how humbling it must be to have so many renowned artists and journalists praise your work ! this is a good primer for further study of the band - it was for me . i 'm in a cover band ( as david bowie says in the dvd - everyone who 's heard pixies , forms a band ) , since i feel a strong urge to try to cover pixies ' music . the other members did n't know of their work , so i am going to use this dvd as a seminar on the pixies ' work . i watch it regularly , for personal inspiration - i ca n't get enough . thom yorke ( of radiohead ) says that you must be `` that good for a start '' - we are going to give it a shot . i was in high school when the more favored 3 cds were published , but alas , was never exposed . a year and a half later , i am so glad that i saw , and now own this dvd - most importantly i `` discovered '' the greatness of pixies . i even went to see them at a small local venue in june 2005 ( got kim 's autograph ! ) . i will be buying the `` sellout '' dvd , when released in oct2005 . i feel that this is a very satisfying dvd , and a deal ( no pun intended ) for the price of & lt ; $ 20 - a quarter what i paid for my wife and i to see them live . by the way , to the author of one of these commentaries - the name of the album is surfer rosa , not sister rosa - you seem like you know what you 're talking about , bone machine head ! long live the pixies ! !