blue i do n't know how familiar i can say i am with krzystof kieslowski . i 've seen 2/3 of `` the decalogue '' his ten-hour masterpiece and now i 've seen the first film in his three colors trilogy `` blue . '' i think anyone who sees a film by kieslowski will have a hard time disputing that he was one of the great directors . he 's not credited as being one of the great directors , but he is credited as being a great director . hopefully , in the years to come , his brilliance will become acknowledged . `` blue '' is a strange film ... it does n't follow the typical rules of storytelling . it has a plot , but the images it uses play as big a part in telling the story as the plot does . then there 's the music . rarely has the music been as important to a film as it is to `` blue . '' juliette binoche ( who won a french oscar for best actress for this role ) plays julie , a young woman whose husband and young daughter are killed in a car accident . julie was in the car , but made it out alive . once she heals up , she finds herself being badgered by friends and composers for her husband 's last composition ( her husband was a famous composer ) . the movie 's turning point comes when julie calls an old friend that she knows is in love with her . after they do their thing , she moves into an anonymous little apartment building in the hopes of escaping everyone she knows . she fears being hurt again and decides to have no friends , no acquaintances , and no family . then , in a kieslowski-like turn of events , she meets her husband 's pregnant mistress . there are a lot of movies about people losing loved ones and trying to deal with it . in kieslowski 's hands , however , this formula seems fresh and new . there 's no denying that kieslowski and his co-writer krzystof piesiewicz understood the human condition and humans in general . none of the scenes in the film feel artificial or unneeded . kieslowski does n't waste time filling the screen with pointless scenes , but has it shaved down to the essentials . as i said , this film is very different . unique would sum it up quite good . while i 'd be lying if i said i understood the significance of this , there is something he does in the movie that i was quite fond of . in certain scenes , while julie is talking usually , loud music will begin playing and the screen will fade to black . after a few moments , we fade back into exactly where we were . while i have n't seen the other films in the trilogy quite yet , i 'm looking forward to them . any fan of foreign cinema should see this film ... if you have n't yet discovered kieslowski , you need to . grade : a