major payne has hurt my sides with laughter . `` major payne '' is one of the funniest movies that i enjoy to watch over and over again . i thought that damon wayans delivered a knockout performance as the loud-mouthed , gold-toothed , trash talking , squeaky voiced major benson winifred payne . he was so funny that i nearly had a heart attack while laughing at the same time . after a major drug bust goes extremely well in south america , major payne ( damon wayans ) returns to parris island , south carolina and finds out that the u.s. marine corps is throwing him out of the military back into civilian life . after two weeks of civilian life , payne is let back into the military under one condition : go to virginia and train a group of delinquents for an rotc program at madison academy . payne regretfully accepts the job and puts each of the boys into 8 weeks of living hell ! it becomes a fight because the boys do what they can to put major payne out of their lives ! i have so many favorites scene through out this movie but the one that shines the brightest is when wayans had a dance sequence at a club where he performs a series of moves ( including a very nice `` robot '' ) , and with the help of music from 2 live crew . many of the gags are side-splitting funny , and the vocal tones and mannerisms of major payne are just spot-on hilarious . and the kids in the film do a remarkable job in their supporting roles . the kids in fact steal the show ( especially the younger ones ) . lots of absurdity in the movie , but still here and there peeks through a poignant maturity on the deeper symbolism of what boot camp is all about of course , it is a feel good movie so you know everything will work out in the end . base on some of the lower reviews you can see that this movie is not for everyone , but at the same time is worth seeing . if you do n't like it by the time payne does his `` failure to communicate ! '' line then maybe it is n't for you . as for me it 's utterly brilliant .