a classic 80 's movie nicholas cage and deborah foreman star in this great movie from the 80 's about a girl from the valley and a guy from hollywood . foreman stars as julie , a valley girl who , along with her boyfriend tommy ( michael bowen ) are the most popular couple at valley high . however , julie is getting bored with tommy because she thinks he 's ignoring her . so , she breaks up with him ( on a mall escalator , no less ) . after the break-up , julie and her friends samantha ( tina theberge ) , loryn ( elizabeth daily ) , and suzie ( michelle meyrink ) head to the beach . it is here that julie gets her first glimpse of randy ( cage ) . unfortunately for julie , she and her now ex-boyfriend tommy are both supposed to go to a party at suzie 's house . randy 's friend fred overhears the plans for the party , and he and randy plan to crash the party . sure enough , fred and randy show up uninvited at suzie 's house , but julie is immediately intrigued by randy . the two start talking , but tommy and his thug friends interfere and throw randy out of the house . now very mad , randy and fred go back to the party . randy waits in the bathroom for julie to come in , and the two decide to leave together . julie convinces samantha to come along . randy takes julie `` over the hill ' to hollywood and shows her some of his favorite places to hang out . the sparks soon begin to fly between randy and julie , and they start going steady , much to the disgust of julie 's friends . their relationship goes along very well for a while , but one night at a sleepover , julie 's friends tell her that she must make a choice between them and randy . they convince her to get back together with tommy and dump randy . julie goes along with it , and starts to be very mean to randy , but does she really feel that way , or is she just covering up her true feelings for the sake of her friends ? will julie and randy get back together , or will julie do what her friends want her to ? this is a great movie . i 've seen it several times on vhs , and i was thrilled to find it on dvd . nicholas cage and deborah foreman are great in their roles as julie and randy . the supporting actors are very good as well . this movie was released when i was in high school , so it brings back a lot of memories for me . the great 80s music played throughout the movie is a huge plus , too . i give this movie my highest recommendation . the story is excellent , and the acting is very good . take a trip back to the 80s with this great movie . `` its awesome ''