one of the best movies ever made , one of the best dvds ever made . `` butch cassidy and the sundance kid '' is one of the best films ever made and fox has recently released a fitting two disc dvd edition of the film . fitting because the dvd is one of the best i have ever seen . directed by george roy hill and written by william goldman , the god of screenwriters , `` butch cassidy and the sundance kid '' stars paul newman , robert redford and katharine ross . how could a film with this pedigree be anything but good ? what you may not realize , or know , is that this film made robert redford the star he is today . paul newman , already an established star having appeared in `` hud '' , `` cool hand luke '' and `` the hustler '' , among others , was a bankable star and the film was made because he agreed to make it . initially , he wanted to play the sundance kid , but eventually settled on the role of cassidy . robert redford was not new to film , but he was nowhere near the icon he would become . he had some early success which was followed by a few clunkers . the pair became a match made in heaven and would go on to appear in more films together . on screen , they appear to be friends , much like their characters , and this adds to the charm of their relationship . redford clearly recognizes the influence this film had on his career . his famous film academy and film festival are named after his character in the film . butch and sundance decide to rob the mail car of a train owned by a powerful rail baron . butch is tired of the work and wants to retire , but he needs one or two big scores to set him up . after blowing up the rail car , they run off with the loot and hide out in a small town , at a brothel they frequent . meeting up with the rest of their gang , they quell a revolt and decide to do one more job . they will rob the same mail car on the same railway , on its next run through the area . it is the perfect crime , no one would suspect the same train being robbed , so it will probably be loaded with money . after blowing up the car for a second time , they notice another locomotive speeding towards them and a crew of men on horseback alight from the car and give chase , chasing butch and sundance , and their two accomplices , for days , across many terrains . finally , they realize the rail baron has hired a famous indian tracker to help a band of men , including a former sheriff who is now a famous bounty hunter , catch the duo . after the chase , they return to the home of ella ( katharine ross ) , the sundance kid 's girlfriend . tired , they decide to leave the country and travel to bolivia and begin robbing banks there . as i watched this dvd of `` butch cassidy '' , two things quickly became apparent . this film is virtually timeless . with the lone exception of the song `` raindrops keep falling on my head '' , the film could 've been made yesterday , the images are so clear . the second is that the dvd print is one of the most beautiful transfers i have ever watched . the cinematography by conrad hall ( who would later work on `` american beauty '' among others ) is simply stunning and brings out all of the rich detail of the landscape . everything is crisp and clear , when it is supposed to be , colors are bright and vivid , it 's just beautiful to watch . it does n't hurt that the stars are two of the most handsome men to ever appear in film , at the prime of their careers , and one of the most beautiful women to ever co-star . how did anyone get past all of that eye candy ? the key to becoming fully invested in this film is william goldman 's screenplay . he introduces the characters in action , we learn as we go , and they are almost always moving , or doing something . goldman fills their mouths with witty dialogue , showing us how their relationship works , and they are instantly likeable to us . this is basically a love triangle with ross ' ella playing the go-between . the two men have a very close friendship , enjoying each other 's company . but cassidy loves ella as well , even appears slightly jealous until he realizes his friend is the recipient of this woman 's love , so they get along . then , there is the famous chase . the railway baron 's men chase butch and sundance for days , taking up a significant chunk of the film . but this scene proves to us how committed the two men are to each other and makes their future trek to bolivia all the more believable . we have to believe there is a real threat and these men never let up on the chase , if they catch butch and sundance , they will be killed . as soon as they reach bolivia , goldman has a lot of fun with the characters again , exploring their relationships , rebuilding them in a way , and making them light hearted again . it is almost amazing to watch this film because if a studio executive were presented with the same screenplay today , it would probably not be made . it does n't hit plot points at pre-determined pages , it tells an unconventional story , and we never actually see the villains . goldman had the luxury of writing this film during a period in which studios were still able to work with somewhat unconventional screenplays . of course , they wanted to make money as well , but they still considered film an art form . george roy hill is an underappreciated director . i think a large part of this is because many of his films are very humorous . comedy is not as highly respected in hollywood as drama , even though making a good comedy is much more difficult . so i suspect the humorous elements of most of his films made him less respected in hollywood , but when your films are as good as `` butch cassidy and the sundance kid '' and `` the sting '' , you deserve some respect . he made his share of duds , but when he passed away a few years ago , hollywood was robbed of a talent ready to make at least a few more classics . during this period , big screen westerns were becoming unpopular . perhaps the dearth of television westerns was keeping the public out of the theaters , but this genre was considered risky at the time . recent films starring burt lancaster and others were failing to light the box office fire . the second disc contains a new `` making of '' feature including interviews with newman , redford , ross , former studio executives david brown and richard zanuck and more . zanuck reveals that he took a real chance in greenlighting this film , but fought for it all the way . he also haggled with hill and the filmmakers , in an attempt to keep the budget under control ; he became concerned when the film was projected to cost about $ 7.5 million ( consider the average studio film now costs at least $ 125 million ) . but the film would go on to be a big hit . such a huge hit the filmmakers followed this with the equally popular `` the sting '' . the second dvd also contains some archival interviews with the stars , some trailers and more . in the `` making of '' documentary , they discuss the inclusion of the song `` raindrops keep falling on my head '' . people fought against it but hill and composer burt bacharach felt it would be the perfect accompaniment to the scene of butch and ella riding a new-fangled bike through her barn yard . it does work , but it is clearly not a fit for the period depicted in the film , and is the most dated element within the film today . it just seems silly today . `` butch cassidy and the sundance kid '' is a superlative example of the treatment all classics should receive on dvd . this is a film every dvd library should have