one of the best criterion releases yet . in this 5 disc set , the five antoine doinel films are released . all are by françois truffaut . the first film , `` the 400 blows '' or `` le quatre cents coups '' was previouslly released by the criterion collection but was taken out of print until this version was released . truffaut based it loosely on his own troubled adolescence . it follows 14 year old antoine doinel 's youth playing hooky from school , later running away from home and eventually sent to a juvenile deliquent center . the second film `` antoine and collette '' or `` '' antoine et colette '' was originally a segment of a film titled `` l'amour à vingt ans '' or `` love at twenty '' it follows his life as he is in his late teens working in a phonograph record factory . the third film , `` stolen kisses '' or `` baisers volés '' covers his dishonorable discharge from the army , his reunion with his girlfriend , and subsequent attempts to find a steady job the fourth film , `` bed & board '' or `` domicile conjugal '' skips ahead to after he is married . it covers his wife 's pregnancy , his son 's birth , and an adulterous affair he has with a japanese woman . the fifth and final film , `` love on the run '' or `` l'amour en fuite '' covers the process of his divorce and reunion with an ex flame . the films wer made between 1959 and 1979 and jean-pierre léaud reprises his role for each film . the films are very impressive and quite rare for there to be series like this . each film has some fine secenes and some interesting comedy . the acting is good and many scenes are well photographed . the box set has some excellent special features also . out of the five discs , four are numbered . for describing the special features , i will list the unnumbered disc as the last one . disc one contains the first two films . 400 blows and antoine & colette . the supplements for the 400 blows are similar to ones in the out of print version . there are two audio commentaries . one is by film professor , brian stonehill and the other is by robert lachenay who was a lifelong friend of françois truffaut . the commentary by lachenay is in french with subtitles . there is also audition footage for three of the child actors in the film . jean-pierre léaud who played antoine , patrick auffay , who played rene , and richard kanayan who played abbou . there is also footage of jean-pierre at the cannes film festival for the screening of the film and a theatrical trailer . there are also two television interviews with françois truffaut about the making of the film . it also contains the short film , antoine and colette . disc two contains the film stolen kisses along with the following special features : there is news footage of truffaut 's participation in the sucessful attempt to shut down the 1968 canne film festival to support students and striking workers , a tv spot of truffaut and jean-luc goddard showing ther support for cinémathèque française founder , henri langlois at a time when his job was in jeopardy , news footage of french cinema vip 's protesting against the planned removal of henri langlois from his job , excerpts from a tv interview with truffaut discussing actor jean-pierre léaud 's portrayal of antoine , and a video introduction to the film and events surrounding its release presented by film historian serge toubiana . disc three contains the film bed and board with the following supplements : behind the scenes footage with interviews of some of the cast & crew , a tv interview with jean-pierre talking about the film being the last in the series ( before truffaut decided to make the fifth and final film , ) a tv interview with truffaut and bernard revon discussing how the write the scripts , and a scene from a truffaut documentary where he discusses the character of antoine doinel . disc four contains the final film in the series love on the run along with the following truffaut and marie-france pisier talking about their work on the film and their feelings about the film , scenes of a tv interview with truffaut talking about his feelings on ending the series , there is also a theatrical trailer . the final unnumbered disc contains : françois truffaut 's 1957 short film , `` les mistons '' or `` the mischief makers '' about some young teenage boys who attempt to sabotage the relationship of an older couple . the film also has oprional audio commentary by claude de givray . it is in french with english subtitles . there is also a primer for the film presented by serge toubiana , a noted film historian . there is also a 44 minute interview with co-writers claude degivray and bernard revon . a scene from a 1961 documentary titled `` françois truffaut , '' a 1981 tv interview with truffaut , and a slide show of movie posters for the four feature length doinel films . this set is a must buy for those who like the series as well as criterion collectors , and fans of françois truffaut 's work