a strong family drama , well worth watching ... with 21st century eyes , it 's wonderful to see a family like the waltons . although they are scrabbling against poverty , living in the blue ridge mountains of virginia during the depression , they are happy . the large family , which includes seven children , parents , and grandparents , is loving and supportive . sure , the kids are n't angels -- like any others , they squabble and have their problems . but when push comes to shove , they 've got one another 's backs , like when eldest sister mary ellen beats up a classmate for mocking little brother jim bob 's shirt ( made from sister erin 's old dress ) or when eldest brother john-boy defends mary ellen from a potential assault by a guest staying with the family . most gratifying is the children 's overall contentment . sure , they aspire for `` things '' - they long to see a traveling circus that comes to the mountains , and they pause by toys displayed in the general store . but for the most part , they do n't dwell upon what they do n't have . they take contentment in life in general , and when the occasional treat comes their way , they truly appreciate it ... unlike many kids today , whose parents buy them the latest ipods and video games , and it 's still not enough . the waltons ' saga is told through the eyes of eldest son john-boy , who is 17 and aspires to be a writer . he is based on earl hamner , a virginia native who wrote `` spencer 's mountain , '' the book upon which the show is based . hamner does a voiceover in each episode , speaking as the adult john-boy looking back on his childhood . ( for the record , i 'm 26 years old , not someone who grew up with this show , or looks down upon `` today 's youth '' from the vantage of age . but , as you know , not all young folks are content with the attitudes of today 's society as a rule . i , for one , truly wish we could return to a simpler time ; it wo n't be long before our complicated lives lead us to self-destruct .