requiem i just watched this movie last night . i came across the title on someone 's myspace and being a jared leto fan i wanted to watch it . i had also read a few reviews and talked to some people who said the film was riveting . riveting is the very least i can say about this film . it is as the amazon editorial review puts it , `` a tour through hell . '' this film makes you think . the fact that all the addicts succumbed to their addictions seems a little out there to me but i keep wondering is it so far fetched . . . ? how many people are there that actually do escape addictions ? you might escape one but more than likely you will soon replace it with another . during the film i kept trying to see the positive side of it all and hoping that there was some middle ground ; some little piece of hope left . i was wrong . the film did n't depict drug use the way that i had expected to see it ; the way i had seen it depicted in countless other films . all of the ugly aspects of drug use were put out there for your viewing pleasure . personally i found it painful to watch . there were moments when i actually thought of turning it off but for some reason continued to watch . i think that reason was the hypnotic trancelike style of the film . the truth is that i could n't stop watching . the film put me directly in the shoes of the addict . i felt like the addicts in the film . . . my hands sweaty and my heart pounding . i could n't close my eyes . i want to see it again sometime . i would like to watch it with my husband . i bought the movie before i had ever watched it the first time . the film was painfully realistic , genuinely graphic , appalling and appealing at the same exact time . a must see . overall i think it is a wonderful film to add to any collection . personally it is probably one of the best movies i have ever watched . i think the acting in the movie was outstanding , the direction was genius , and the plot was amazingly horrific . all in all this is an 5 star film