`` to my liberation from the class enemy ! '' rita vogt ( bibiana beglau ) is one of a group of west german terrorists who spring fellow terrorist , andrea ( harald schrott ) from jail . several people are shot during the jailbreak , and the group goes on the lam to paris . while in paris , rita kills a policeman , and the terrorists are once again on the run -- this time they slip into east germany with the help of stasi officer erwin hull ( martin wuttke ) who befriended rita when she was recognized upon entering east berlin before . since the heat is on the group , erwin makes an offer -- the terrorists can accept a new life -- with new identities in east germany , or they can be flown out to beirut . while everyone else elects beirut , rita decides to stay in east germany . rita assumes a new identity in east germany , and her adjustment to her environment is at the heart of `` the legend of rita '' from director volker schlondorff . the plot places rita in some interesting situations . her first job , for example , is in a factory where she befriends tatjana ( nadja uhl ) . tatjana loathes east germany , and would love to live in the west . she ca n't understand why rita ( now living under an assumed name ) would give up western freedoms and chose to live under communist rule . in the meantime , rita 's former rebelliousness against the state has simply disappeared , and she 's become a drone -- speaking the party line and accepting whatever she 's told to do . when rita 's new identity is threatened , she has little choice but to move on -- leaving tatjana and their budding lesbian affair . the film fails to fulfill its promise , however , on several layers . rita becomes a pawn for the stasi -- every move she makes is watched , and every conversation she has is taped . the film could have chosen to tackle some fascinating complex arguments -- rita 's ideology , for example , and the challenge she faces in either rejecting her beliefs or sticking to them in the face of such nauseating , and threatening orwellian bureaucracy . the plot shows rita as mindlessly accepting what she is told to do -- she does n't question her freedoms , and by making rita a drone , she is a far less interesting character . instead , the film concentrates on rita 's two love interests . also , if you are expecting to discover something about the red army faction ( raf ) here , keep looking . this is not a film about the raf . there is an excellent book by stefan aust on the subject , but it 's rare to find a copy in english . i recommend `` how it all began '' by bommi baumann and `` televisionaries : the red army faction story 1963-1993 '' by tom vague . `` the legend of rita '' is worth watching for all fans of german film out there . overall , the film 's message argues strongly against aligning oneself with any political ideals . in german with english subtitles -- displacedhuma