film has some merit despite some flaws i enjoyed this film very much . it strikes a common chord for a lot of gay people who have suffered rejection and pain for their coming out of the closet . how many can identify with the lead character david , obviously suffering from the depression of an unrequited love for his best straight friend of fourteen years , a fellow named theo . what gives this film merit is that they made the gay character straight acting , devoid of all feminine stereotypes that most gay films project into their lead gay characters . in an ironic twist , his best friend , theo , played by john simm is decidedly feminine acting and looking yet he is the straight guy . unfortunately , simm and the actress who plays his girlfriend have no chemistry , thus making their relationship implausible . if it is true that gay people look for `` looks in a person first '' rather than personality , then this movie proves that this is a myth . i liked the fact that david , who could have any man he wanted ( because he is the good looking one ) saw beyond theo 's average looks and felt a genuine , albeit , obsessive and unhealthy love for him . one sympathizes with david because he is so obviously miserable having to stand by and watch his best friend get it on with the girlfriend , and then hear the details afterward . again , how many gay people have ever been in this situation ? it is a common occurrence in the gay community . another implausibility is the `` coming out on a talk show '' with a near `` jenny jones '' type of fiasco at the end with theo nearly beating david to a pulp until his girlfriend , who inexplicably and conveniently shows up and stops him from killing david . one ca n't believe that theo would have that much violence and hated toward david , no matter what drove david to break up the relationship between theo and the girlfriend . john simm ( theo ) did not play the aspect of homophobia convincingly enough to warrant his attack . the film ends with david serenely contended in a lush , green park , free at last . free from hiding , yes , but free from his love for theo ? i think not . the film was , indeed , realistic in its attempt to portray the consequences of coming out and a homophobic society . however , the end result is that , in my opinion , one is not entirely convinced that theo would abandon david in such a violent way . not after being taken care of and defended by david for fourteen years . thanks to the fine portrayal of the actor who played david , this film has merit because he made the character sympathetic and identifiable , despite some of the malicious things he was driven to do for the sake of his love for theo . this film is worth a look .