& quot ; to fight fascism you have to be a communist. & quot ; one of the most notorious espionage stories of the 20th century involves several members of britain 's upper crust . while anthony blunt , guy burgess , kim philby , and donald maclean attended trinity college , cambridge , in the 1930s , they were recruited as spies by the soviet government . all of the men subsequently gained prestigious jobs and successfully passed secrets to the russians for several decades . the four-hour television mini-series , & quot ; cambridge spies & quot ; , concentrates on the characters of the spies , and how the society they were part of allowed them to flourish . the film begins with trinity college , cambridge in the 1930s . hitler 's power is on the rise , and fascism manages to impress a certain segment of the british upper classes . in response to the rise of fascism , many are attracted to communism . blunt and burgess are members of an elite club -- the apostles -- and they are both committed communists when they meet and become involved with donald maclean and kim philby . the four men form a tight bond , which remains even after they leave university . philby and burgess both held high positions in mi6 , and maclean became a diplomat . blunt -- a distant relative to the royals -- was knighted and became the royal curator of art for the queen . & quot ; cambridge spies & quot ; succeeds in showing how these men were attracted to communism in the first place . they all came from wealthy , privileged backgrounds , and involvement with communism was a reaction against that , and also a reaction against fascism . the film shows the political and social atmosphere in which the & quot ; cambridge spies & quot ; made their commitment to communism . the film is also extremely successful in showing the 'old boy network ' that existed , and which , in effect managed to protect the spies . they were simply beyond suspicion and beyond reproach . guy burgess ( tom hollander in an amazing performance ) is a volatile extrovert with a penchant for self-destruction . kim philby ( toby stephens ) is much more controlled , and he seems the more rational of the bunch . maclean ( rupert penry-jones ) is another loose cannon , and blunt ( samuel west ) enjoys his connection with his royal relatives far more than he anticipated . while i deplored the misguided actions of the spies , it seems quite plausible that at least two of the four men ( blunt and burgess ) lived to really regret their youthful decision to convert to communism . but they found themselves stuck in a lifetime commitment before they realised the consequences . blunt and burgess seemed to truly love england , and their involvement with the soviet government is sadly ironic . & quot ; cambridge spies & quot ; is really is an incredible story . the plot sticks more or less to the truth -- although some details are not quite accurate . the most glaring deviation concerns the defection of guy burgess . dvd extras include a documentary , and there 's also a 'scrapbook ' with tv tidbits about each of the spies -- displacedhuman