`` i 'm in print ! '' navin johnson is an idiot . he was adopted and raised by black sharecroppers in mississippi . navin loves his family but he feels he does n't fit in . his family all has rhythm , but he does n't . so , on his 18th birthday he leaves to discover the rest of the world . after hitching a few rides he ends up in st. louis working and living at a gas station . my favorite scene in the entire movie happens there . the new phone books arrive and navin gets all excited . `` this is the kind of spontaneous publicity -- your name in print -- that makes people . i 'm in print ! things are going to start happening to me now . '' that scene is priceless . while at the gas station navin invents a device for a man 's glasses that later makes navin a billionaire . but , before that happens he gets shot at by a crazy sharpshooter , gets a job at a traveling carnival , meets a biker chick , breaks up with the biker chick , and fall in love and marry the woman of his dreams , marie kimble ( bernadette peters ) . of course , navin ends up loosing everything and that 's why he 's a jerk . the jerk was n't steve martin 's first movie , but it was his first starring role in a feature film and introduced the style of comedy he was doing on the comedy circuit to a broader audience . the movie is filled with all kinds of jokes from witty one-liners , poop jokes , sexual innuendo , slapstick , and a lot of crazy nonsense . there were moments of the jerk that i really enjoyed , but there was a lot of stuff that was just plain stupid . of course , there 's a lot of material in the film that no one would be able to get away with today . steve martin always was more than just a `` wild and crazy guy . '' he 's an intellectual at heart and one can see snippets of that side of martin in the jerk . unfortunately , it 's overshadowed by the type of comedy martin was doing on the comedy circuit that appealed mainly to teenagers and college students . actually , the reason i ended up liking the jerk was n't because of martin at all , it was because of bernadette peters . peters is one of the finest actresses of all time -- she can do serious drama or slapstick comedy and do it better than any other actress . she 's a classy lady with a broad charm . martin is the star of the jerk , but the film would not have been able to stand if it was n't for peters . the jerk is a must-see movie for martin or peters fans . it 's also a movie that people who enjoy lowbrow humor will probably like . the film 's largest audience at the time it was released was college students and teenagers . twenty-five years that core audience probably has n't changed much