on the edge of the abyss for thirteen tense days in october , 1962 , the united states and the soviet union teetered on the brink of nuclear war . the soviets had placed intermediate-range nuclear missiles in cuba . these missiles were capable of striking much of the united states and latin america . alerted to the presence of the missiles by a u-2 spy plane photograph , president john f. kennedy ( bruce greenwood ) , attorney general robert f. kennedy ( steven culp ) and the joint chiefs of staff begin to chart a course to avoid a catastrophic nuclear war . the movie is told through the eyes of presidential aide kenny o'donnell ( kevin costner ) . aside from costner 's obviously fake bostonian accent , the design works quite well . by telling the story through o'donnell 's eyes , it allows the viewer to focus more on jfk , rfk , and the development of the crisis . directed by costner as well , the movie describes the entire crisis , from start to finish . from the first discovery of the missiles by the u-2 , through the agonizingly long two weeks of decisions and negotiations , to the final outcome , this movie covers all the bases . i do wish that more attention would have been paid to the soviet side of the crisis . i believe that the film would have been more complete had this occurred . the acting throughout the film is excellent . bruce greenwood gives a compelling and exciting performance as john f. kennedy , while steven culp is equally as good as jfk 's younger brother bobby . costner himself is again at his best as o'donnell , and michael fairman does a wonderful job as the embattled adlai stevenson , who stands up to the soviets at the u.n. with his famous `` hell freezes over '' quote . i give this movie my highest recommendation . october , 1962 was a tense time for the world , and this great movie does a fine job of depicting the missile crisis . as with its earlier predecessor `` the missiles of october '' , this film describes exactly how close the world came to nuclear war .