a lesson to remember ... this is the story of two girls , alice marano ( claire danes ) and darlene davis ( kate beckinsale ) , who are best friends . alice is from a blue collar background , while darlene 's family is white collar . they have just graduated from high school and are supposed to be going on a trip to hawaii to celebrate , except that alice convinces darlene that they should , instead , go a more exotic locattion . so , while telling their parents they are off to hawaii , they end up going to thailand , where they flop in a six dollar a night fleabag hotel , replete with roaches the size of potatoes . they hook up with a handsome , young australian named nick parks ( daniel lapaine ) , who engages their confidence and with whom they briefly end up hanging out . alice and darlene find themselves competing for his interest . he then invites them to accompany him for a weekend in hong kong and , ultimately , both agree . while at the airport to board their flight to hong kong , they suddenly discover themselves under arrest , as one of their backpacks is found to contain a large cache of drugs , much to their collective surprise . the girls then begin a journey through the tibetan criminal justice system , which appears to be a corrupt one and especially harsh on the drug trafficking of which they are accused . alice , the more savvy one , declines to sign anything , while darlene , the more naive of the two , signs a statement written in thai that she believes to be a transcript of her own words , only later to find that she has signed a complete confession . even after obtaining legal representation from an expatriate attorney named yankee hank green ( bill pullman ) , they still end up being sentenced to a very long prison term . this is where the movie really starts focusing on what it is really all about , their friendship . excellent performances are given by claire danes and kate beckinsale , as well as bill pullman . while claire danes give her somewhat hard edged character a certain vulnerability , somehow the viewer knows that she could probably do the time to which she is sentenced while standing on her head . kate beckinsale imbues her her character with a fragility that lets the viewer know that if she stays in that tibeetan prison for very long , she will be a goner . while the ending comes as somewhat of a surprise , it is somehow fitting . yet , at the same time it is puzzling , as it is almost as if there were an atonement involved , but the viewer is left guessing as for what . the film is a compelling one , but in the final analysis falls somewhat short of its mark , with questions unanswered and motives left open to speculation . still , the film manages to entertain , notwithstanding these shortcomings