best cartoon ever made - from lost era of morals , spinal ownership and legal masculinity imagine a cartoon series that teaches your kids respect of elders , doing homework , saying your prayers at night , bite-sized science lessons , respecting other cultures and people while at the same time actually killing the bad guys instead of worrying about offending them . welcome to johnny quest - a journey into testosteroneland where men are men , boys are boys , bad guys get killed and women are nowhere to be found . this cartoon series is about as conservative as a cartoon can be . you will not see this box sitting on the movie shelf at your liberal friend 's house . for example , attacking crocodiles get repelled with gunfire , bad guys get shot ( dead ) , the key scientist has morals ( and prefers to be armed ) , and ex-military bodyguards protect the kiddies by using bullwhips to crack scorpions into pieces . also , dr. beton quest is prone to tell the boys to pray when science eventually fails to come to the rescue . jetpacks , hovercraft , jets , monsters , ray guns , scientific experiments , military action ( tanks vs robots ) , bad guys , soldiers and police ( being portrayed accurately in a positive light ! ) , prehistoric beasts , cavemen , natzi war criminals getting punished , etc . imagine the government only relying on real scientists who examine things through actual experiments and resulting data - not politicians pushing junk science like global warming , totally ignoring the millions of metric tons of greenhouse gasses and solid particulates volcanoes release and how it was warm enough for the vikings to grow crops in greenland 1,000 years ago . i would have paid hundreds of dollars for this dvd set . ps : you might be interested to know that the title of this product is mispeading , as there was never a second season of johnny quest , and thus , there will be no additional dvd sets of the original johnny quest - this is all there is . the original 1st-season 26 shows on this dvd set were actually stretched out over two seasons when it aired in 1964-65 . these 26 episodes are all that were ever made . the show was also hugely successful , but the production costs ( this kind cartoon-making was unprecidented at the time ) killed the series . race bannon for president