why did n't anybody tell me they made a movie of this ? why am i only finding out now that there was a film of `slaughterhouse five ' ? the advent of dvd has brought back some great films that have been lost or forgotten . everywhere i go i 'm told that `slaughterhouse five ' was the greatest book ever written . but i 've never gotten around to reading it . the film leaves no doubt that in print or on film this is one of the greatest stories ever told . the plot : this is what i 've always asked . `` what is this great story `slaughterhouse five ' about ? '' now that i know i can see why all my friends were at a loss to explain it . the story does not sound intriguing in theory but is great in practice . `slaughterhouse five ' is about a man billie pilgrim who is `` lost in time '' that is , every 30 seconds he jumps forward or backward to a different time in his life . somewhat similar to `memento ' except it was 5 minutes and he was always going backwards . billie pilgrim 's life has three main settings . he was drafted into wwii and taken prisoner at the battle of the bulge . as a pow he is taken to dresden and survives the single worst massacre of wwii . in the 1950s he experiences suburban life as a father . and in his later years he is abducted by aliens and enslaved with a topless movie star to reproduce . see what i mean , these are three very odd stories that should n't work together . there is the very serious issue of dresden , the `` open city '' in germany with no armed forces or war production which was inhabited by european refugees hoping to wait out the war in peace . but on february 14 1945 the allies decided to destroy german moral by ordering hundreds of british and american bombers to fire bomb the city . on february 15 they returned , and on the 16th they sent in american fighters to machine gun as many survivors as possible . 135,000 civilians died , more than hiroshima or nagasaki . a rather serious issue for a sci-fi film . why is billie lost in time ? we never know but suspect it may be because he 's abducted by aliens where he says time does not exist . or it may be that after a plane crash he has brain surgery . billie is a likeable character because he does n't really say or do anything on his own . billie does not shape events , events shape him . he did n't go to dresden because he wanted to , he gets married and works only because that is what 's expected of him . and the aliens abduct him . billie is not so much an actor as he is an observer . and his loss of time is just like everyone else . one moment i 'm writing this review and the next i 'm back to last night watching this film . our minds jump to different times in our lives . as for the production quality of this film , it 's great . the wwii scenes are very authentic and high budget . the acting is good although there are no notable actors . billie is played by michael sacks whose filmography is thin and unotable . i only remember him as the hostage cop in `sugarland express ' . the topless actress is played by valerie perrine who you may remember as lex luther 's girlfriend in the `superman ' films . `slaughterhouse five ' may sound as bizarre as its title named after billie 's pow barracks , but it 's a very powerful story that will make you laugh , cry , and smile . i ca n't believe a film buff like me did n't know about . it just shows you how many lost gems are being found on dvd .