japanimation comes to life ! ! ! ! noooo ... this movie isnt based on some anime film . no no no ! , but it unfolds like a hilariously awesome classic the likes of which ive only seen from old school anime films of the late 80s/early 90s . if the matrix was suppost to be a ghost in the shell rip off , then this film , the legend 2 , embodies even more of what the matrix was supposivly influenced by . noooo ... this is not a cold hearted all serious flick ... it doesnt take it self overly seriously ... yet it is at the same time quite inspiring ... now this is the genuis of this little film , its not this masterwork of film making ... yet it has times of genuine hilarity , while still stirring your spirit in awe . something like this can be a little toung-n-check , yet still evokes one 's admiration . without sounding to lofty on the descriptions here , people , the legend 2 might of not been exactly like the chinese language version ... but it is very memorable in its own right ... the voice actors behind the talented cast here are some from the finest films in japanese anime ... thats right ... you might notice some from ninja scroll ... project a-ko ... and more ... these voice actors bring that comprehensive hilarity to the screen ... .yes , sorry if i sound like a washed up editoral hack ... but bare with me ... for instance ... when the men tease fong about him following his mother around ... its just random and so damn funny . and the main bad guy , is great ... he 's a frstrated bully of a character who at times wont relent at insulting fong about his closeness to his mom . and speaking of which , fong and his `` legendary '' mom are one funny duo . and so is the man who sorta looks after fong , who was the mothers ex lover i think . he has a funny deep serious voice . the action looks like it inspires the great anime films ... thats right ... not inspired by the anime ... it seems like it would inspire the anime world itself ... it doesnt draw influence from great anime , but i bet films like this inspire japanese artists to create great anime series and stories ! you might not understand all this , but its a different take , a unique review of the film that no one has noticed yet on amazon , for this film anyways . sure , this english dub , american version of the film isnt true to the original ... but i remember seeing this on tv ... and it was even more edited than this im sure ... and it was awesome ... i taped it ... but lost it i think , but now i finally have it , in its entirity . this film embodies a lot of what makes kung fu films so loveable and great . humorous characters , awesome action , inspring stylization . the scene where fong walks slowly into battle as the colorfull pedals or leaves fall and float down from the sky is just beautifull and has power , cinematographically ... ..if thats a word , hahaha . this is a classic ... it melds together serious inspiring action and laugh out loud hilarity . and i havent even seen the first movie yet . hope this helped ya out in deciding if you wan na get this movie or not . its not too expensive ... when you buy it , just dont expect some oscar winning film ... it aint ... its not the greatest film ever produced ... it doesnt have to be .