a woman 's rise above so many adversities this is a heartbreaking epic tale about the difficult road a young woman must travel when she breaks the rules of social acceptance . it 's hard for a modern young woman like myself to fathom that a mere seventy years ago , this was the fate of an unwed mother . elizabeth 's life is turned upside down when she becomes pregnant , and has no idea where the father has gone . social restrictions leave elizabeth with two unappealing choices : admittance into a magdalene convent or marriage to a farmer twice her age whom she has never met . she chooses the latter and is determined to make the best of it , but the harsh , cold , and desolate landscape of her new home is a metaphor for the fate of her marriage . her husband neely , is very possesive and treats her like a piece of property . he is particularly leary of his cousin/ neighbor , mossie , who he calls a `` land grabber '' . they have been fueding for years over the ownership of family property which also gives way to neely 's fearful possesiveness over elizabeth . elizabeth dermot walsh gives a fantastic performance as the fictional elizabeth , who has been so severely beat down yet stays incredibly strong throughout all the tragic twists and turns of her life . the most impressive scene is towards the end when elizabeth kneels at the grave of her stepdaughter and blames herself for her death . that point is the culmination of so many emotions . it shows how elizabeth has given all she can to rectify herself for all the wrong-doing she feels responsibility toward , but at this point feels she has failed . the acting is very powerfull in this scene . i am giving four stars only because i felt that the ending was a bit abrupt . it is sad right up until the end , then there is an admition of love and bam -- a wedding and happy ending . i feel like if you are going to make a movie four hours long there is no reason for an abrupt ending . this is a fantastic movie for anyone with an interest in women 's studies , social influences , period films , or you just want to see a good old fashioned tale of a person rising above so many adversities . if you like this movie , a good supplement would be `` the magdalene sisters '' . it will show you what would have been in store for elizabeth had she admitted herself into the magdalene convent . it is not for the faint of heart though , as it is much more brutal and depressing . it will make you angry , but will give valuable insight into the bleak choices that faced elizabeth in falling for a dancer .