the product of a bygone era in movie-making ... in `` lassie come home , '' `` national velvet , '' and `` the courage of lassie , '' elizabeth taylor was eleven years old ... nevertheless , her charm and beauty were extraordinary , and what she lacked in talent and experience was well hidden in a fine production that was nominated for five academy awards ... as horse-trainer or dog-owner , as spurned wife or mistress , liz is a female who is absorbed in the giving and receiving of love : devotion to the object of passion is the center of her life ... little liz lavishes love on horses and dogs with remarkable intensity ... ecstatic ; a dreamer with a turbulent emotional life , persistent , the young liz dedicates herself to the prize-winning horse the way she later devotes herself to men ... anticipating her later images of young sex goddess , liz as velvet is both saintly and mature ... howard barnes , in the new york herald tribune , called her a child who 'lights up with the integrity of a great passion . ' directed by clarence brown with loving attention to detail , the movie that made her a star is a big bestseller from another era set in sussex , england , where velvet brown , a butcher 's daughter , teams with a vagabond teenager named mi taylo ( mickey rooney ) to train for competition a horse she 's won in a raffle ... from the coastal plains with its beaches , to the rolling hills , thatched cottages , and miles of country walks , `` national velvet '' is the product of a bygone era in movie-making ... following closely the structure of the popular enid bagnold novel , the movie is part horse story , part family portrait : scenes of training and riding are balanced by cozy family scenes , vignettes about young love and sermons from mom on the virtues of courage and endurance ... the browns are a noble version of hollywood rustic ... dedicated to a sober work ethic , they live quiet , exemplary lives ... mrs. brown ( anne revere ) is the very spirit of plain-folk wisdom ; the spokeswoman for common sense and fair play , she knows well enough not to silence the semi-hysterical energy of her horse-crazy daughter , and she lets the girl have her dream ... anne revere won an oscar as velvet 's mother , as did editor robert j. kern ...