charming story - outstanding animation - good family movie set in the suburbs of tokyo , `` whisper of the heart '' is a story of finding ones place in the real world and of finding one 's first true love . the teenage main character , shizuku , wants to be a writer and is seeking her place in the world . while she is a voracious reader , she reads only fantasy which tends to skew her world view . after meeting a hansome boy , seiji , who both infuriates and intrigues her , shizuku sets a personal goal . because seiji knows he wants to study violin making in italy and is going there for a short apprenticeship to see if he has the skills , shizuku sets a goal of writing a story by the time he returns in order to know conclusively if she should be a writer . during the course of whisper of the heart , she learns that life and love is not as easy as in a storybook but that with hard work , one may find true love and happiness in real life as well as in stories . a subplot is shizuku 's relationship with seiji 's grandfather who serves as the voice of wisdom and experience . he teaches her that many beautiful things are hidden and may only be exposed with hard work . he also teaches that life does not always give a happy ending . other than the scene showing shizuku 's writing , the story has none of the strange characters , magic , or fantastic settings of other studio ghibli u.s. releases . ( in my opinion , some of their best real-life style stories such as `` omoide poro poro '' do not translate well into american culture or the american market . ) the animation is fantastic , which i attribute to the detail studio ghibli includes . this is the film which gave rise to `` the cat 's return '' and several of the characters are found in both ( the baron , muuta ) . regardless of the subject matter , i was easily caught up in the story and found it quite compelling . my wife and i often set the language to japanese with subtitles ( my japanese is abysmal ) and as we found with `` kiki 's delivery service , '' the translation of the japanese dialog is better than what was written for the english version . those with some knowledge of japanese culture will notice some other facets of that culture which underlie the story . these include studying for the high school admission tests and the `` goodbyes '' of long-time classmates following junior high school . i found this to be a good family movie and highly recommend it , particularly to anyone with teenage daughters .