one of the iconic classics of the genre if you are a fan of early scifi movies , this is a must-have for your library . there are some classic shot sequences that have been honored in more recent films , and you should look for these . for example , spielberg must be a big fan . pay attention to the shot compositions for the field ( fence , lighting , etc . ) and seek out homages to be found in close encounters and war of the worlds . it is also highly informative to note the perspectives used for social mores , and for science in general . in today 's world , the notion that `` the town scientist '' would turn his astonomical telescope into the daylight sky and view heavenly objects , then turn it below the horizontal and look across the countryside to view the goings on at a top secret military base , are both hoots . that the scientist sees a classic rocketship and knows simply by the form that it is `` atomic '' , is classic . one can only imagine the wonder that science and the future held for the popular mind back then that the writers could get away with that kind of stuff . and yet , in contrast , note the strong presentation of the female role , not as a nurse , but as a doctor who makes the initial tough decisions and takes charge of the situation , driving the story forward . very progressive , when contrasted with the `` scientist love interest who exists to admire the brilliance , bravery and manhood of the hero '' found in the typical films of this genre and era . admittedly , our heroine is subjected to those stereotypes later on in the story , which is disappointing . i also love the military response . this is shortly after wwii . because some kid has a bug up his tail , we roll the tanks onto the trains and storm the town . commanding officers up on rooftops with binoculars ! ! in summary , our modern levels of sophistication might diminish this film to mystery science theater , but that would be unfair . instead , i recommend watching it once for the sheer joy of it . then , watch it a second time with a more critical eye and have all your laughs and pick out all your iconic scenes for future reference