welcome back to horrible hall ! the episodes always began in the same fashion : on a stormy night , a disembodied voice welcomes us to an obviously haunted yet strangely colorful castle called horrible hall . a vampire bat flies across a full moon and attempts to enter a window , which inexplicably moves , causing the bat to crash into the stone wall , revert to vampire form , and fall to the ground . the vampire looks at the viewer and gripes , `` this place is driving me batty ! '' the vampire , of course , was count drac , one of the hosts of filmation 's groovie goolies , a 1970 's favorite which is the latest new release under bci 's ink & paint brand . this cartoon , a spin-off of the then-popular the archie show and originally paired with the adventures of sabrina the teenage witch , is a long-awaited release that has finally come to dvd in a package featuring the complete series on 3 discs . an exponent of the classic universal monsters craze that began in the 1960 's ( and was still going strong in the '70 's ) , groovie goolies was a gang of friendly , rock-and-roll-playing monsters whose adventures acted as a sort of monsterized kids ' version of rowan and martin 's laugh-in , following almost the same format right down to the wall of windows ( here christened `` weird window time '' ) where the characters told jokes and one-liners . in addition to drac , the other goolies were frankie ( the friendly , sweetly goofy frankenstein 's monster ) , wolfie ( a hip , surfing , hot-rod-driving , practical-joking werewolf ) , mummy , boneapart ( a skeleton who fell apart as often as not ) , the sexy vampira-inspired bella laghostley , wacky witch-cook hagatha , and a host of others . sabrina makes appearances as well , along with some of the other characters from her show ( which deserves its own release as a companion to this set , as the goolies originated on sabrina ) . the pacing of each episode is frenetic , which helps with some of the humor ; many of the jokes are enormously corny , but the delivery and speed with which they are told makes them funny , and the character voices are top-notch talent , featuring howard morris and larry storch doing most of the characters . each episode also featured fun , cute and funky soft-rock songs that were usually somehow related to the show ( two per episode ) , and the goolies actually scored a top ten hit during the '70 's with `` chick-a-boom , '' which is also here . the episodes have been well restored , with vibrant color , and the artwork , which filmation has usually excelled at , really stands out . extras include commentary for two episodes , featuring lou schemier ( head of filmation during its run ) , historian darrel mcneil , monster expert bob burns and goolies head writer jack mendelsohn , hosted by voice-over artist wally wingert . wingert also appears as one of the stars of a `` docu-comedy '' called goolians , which combines documentary material with a sitcom format . in this feature ( which runs almost like a goolies episode ) wingert and fellow goolian daniel roebuck ( of lost ) , both self-confessed monster freaks , are sent on a mission to gather information about the groovie goolies to cure their classic monster fixation . from my point of view , there is n't anything wrong with a classic monster fixation , but along the way we hear from mendelsohn , schemier , alice cooper ( who originated the monsters/rock music connection ) , ron chaney ( grandson of lon jr. ) , forrest j. ackerman ( ex-famous monsters of filmland publisher ) and more , so maybe it 's a good thing . if you 're looking for a way to introduce your kids to the idea that sometimes scary can be fun , grab this set ; it 's a great halloween treat and a wonderful return visit from some old fiends . to quote frankie , `` we needed that !