over the shoulder boulder holders i will cry at anything it seems , my girl & armageddon floor me everytime , and i sometimes even cry at neighbours . so i just knew by reading the blurb of this , that i would cry . it 's amazing these days that a friendship can span three decades - so far my longest friendship has lasted nearly 10 years . and we 've been through a lot , but never had a serious argument . as the old saying goes , guys , jobs , etc come & go , but friendships last forever . in this , the friendship starts at the age of roughly 11 , and the young actresses who play barbara hershey & bette midler 's characters are excellent . the little actress who plays cece bloom at 11 is the spitting image of bette midler - poor child ! she 's got the hair , the wide smile and the mannerisms down pat , and it 's so funny to watch her . it 's a shame mayim bialik has n't done much else , it 's mainly voice work she does now ( most notably she voices a character in extreme ghostbusters . ) they become penpals , and the relationship is played out through letters , until they finally get together . the film spirals from there , from husbands , to divorces , to arguments , to children . it 's predictable , and i did find bette midler 's character just a little irritating , but that was n't due to bette midler . it was just the way she played the character she annoyed me , she was so self centered . barbara hershey 's character was fun , kinda the sidekick to cece , and barbara actually got collagen injections in her lips to look younger , as she was playing her character through such a long period . of course you know barbara 's character is gon na get ill , but it 's the way it 's done , it 's very subtle to start with , she starts looking more tired , and then it snowballs , and it 's shocking how they manage to make her look so awful , she deteriorates really quickly , and i have to say the makeup artists did an excellent job there . the funniest line in this film is my title for this review . `` over the shoulder boulder holders '' is the perfect way to describe those annoying things called bras . i 've heard `` wind beneath my wings '' many times before , and it 's an extremely powerful song . what made a bigger difference was watching what was happening on screen , and listening to the lyrics , it brought a whole new meaning to the song , a meaning that i never got before . well , that was me . thankfully , i was watching this alone at the time , cos it would have been really embarrassing for someone to see me crying the way i did . to say beaches had an effect on me is the understatement of the year . even after i 'd switched it off , i was still going about the house in tears . i 'll never hear `` wind beneath my wings '' the same again . unfortunately , i bought the bog standard , no frills , dvd , not realising that there was a special edition . but i 'm quite happy with the edition i have . i 'd probably cry through the extras too . i 'll probably watch this again ( i still force myself to watch armageddon & my girl now & again , just because i love them that much ) , and i 'll probably cry even more now i know what 's coming . it 's a terrific film , and is definitely the ultimate chick flick . it 's also directed by garry marshall , so watch out for a cameo by hector elizondo