many new turns during an overall great season 3 ! the shield is one of those shows i think that will attain even more pop culture status as time goes on , even long after it leaves the airwaves . the show is centered on cops who do corrupt things in order to ultimately put a major smash into the drug and arms trades in los angeles . i 've spent my reviews of season one and two going in depth on how the camera 's angles are unique and how each character has a ton to contribute to the show . this time i 'm simply going to tell you little bits and pieces of what is going on with season three , and it will probably not make any difference because if you have already seen one and two , you know you have to go back for more ! season three tends to get deep in two areas . the one area is the character development . mackey 's ongoing separation from his wife , coupled with finding out his second child is also autistic is a big downer , but besides that he 's also laying pipe everywhere east of l.a. so it apparently is n't bothering him as much as he 'd like to let on . things between him and shane vendrell start to go south quickly . shane and vic were always good friends but as the pressure for the team to produce results as well as keep secrets and stay within boundaries mounts , vic starts pulling back , starts easing off . this action does a boomerang effect for shane vendrell , who launches forward with more reckless abandon on cases than never before ! despite all the drama in their personal lives ( yes , julian the african american cop , is still gay , still a devout christian to the point of fanatically , and still married to a women he 's trying to have a child with ) the street lives are alive more than ever . rival gangs , horrible hit squads , ci 's ( confidential informer ) and sting operations happen in a one two three punch combination throughout the series . kicking off-season three , we have two gangs who are bad , mad and territorial . they are the byz latz and the one-niners . oh and did i mention they both acquire massive amounts of mp-5 submachine guns to try and further their struggles ? the armenian mob of course , is still in the ongoing storyline from season 2 , and its not getting pretty . people are still showing up with they 're feet cut off , and it looks like they are not going to stop . where did their money go , and who shot two of their men when it was taken ? oh well , excuse us , we 're the armenian mob , and our money train is gone , so its time to hack off more feet ! speaking of the money train , vic decided to use some of it in an undercover operation , only to accidentally circulate it back into the drug trade . what vic does n't know is that there was someone else watching the armenians , and slipped in ten thousand dollars worth of marked bills . the strike team is in hot water as well as the `` decoy squad '' is now implemented to ultimately take over their job after a trial run . this is how great this series is , you take a bunch of newbies and chuck them into an ongoing plot and all they do is add their talent in acting and screen presence to the table . some interesting heat will come down on the decoy squad , as well as something terrible happening to juliens former partner tommy . the corruption and mystery within the crime community runs deep , but does n't ever lose us much . on the surface we still are able to keep up with the strike team walking the line between good cop/bad cop , and gangs galore continue to wreak havoc in the streets . the drama and problems with each character continues to mount to the point you think it will crash before winning . wrong again , these stories are tightly written and really do a good job to keep us intrigued because lets face it , like life , in the shield you never know what is going to happen next . the last few episodes are pretty intense . the strike team gets dissolved and shane gets partnered up with a new guy named `` army '' ( he 's an iraq war veteran ) . shane and vic have a showdown of sorts , which really comes from all of the money issues and changed tactics involved in the money train . season four will surprise you as well as please you , as it will see the roles of these 2 friends change quickly enough . season three starts off a little slow but considering the buildup to the ongoing storylines that are really turning into quite the dramatic and suspenseful mini-epics we hoped they would be , it 's well worth the weight . claudette and dutch are still there cracking cases every day . aceveda also appears to be going over the edge and it will be interesting to see if he can ever come back in the future