never was widescreen i do n't want to call anyone silly , or a thief for pirating movies , ( just look at the reviews , you 'll find him ) but just so everyone ( and certainly someone in particular ) who complains about this columbia dvd not being widescreen understands , this move was never made in widescreen ! the first widescreen movie in america was `` the robe '' , released in 1953 . do a little research before you start bashing film noir ( minor ) classics like this bogart picture . there were no widescreen movies before 1953 ! now as for this dvd . i thought the transfer showed very little wear . all-in-all columbia did a very nice job here of cleaning up the print . my only complaint with columbia is how pricey they seem to think their dvd movies are . still , this is a good pot-boiler drama , and bogart is the best . i can leave or take lizabeth scott in this role as the femm fatalle , another leading lady might 've been better ; she 's not a bad actress , i just prefer a lot of other leading ladies of that time period ; she does have a certain bad girl sex-appeal that helps her performance . if you 're not familiar with the story , bogart plays rip murdock , an ex-g.i . returning from the war who suddenly finds himself trying to clear his war-buddy of a murder rap , and then solve his friends murder . bogarts character tangles with the dark underworld , mixing it up with killers and a lovely blonde . this movie has a nice , dark feel to it . not as dark as say , `` in a lonely place '' ( also columbia ) , but still very nice . i liked this film enough to put out the money , and if you are an honest person who loves old bogey pictures , then you 'll put out the money as well . do all of us honest people a favor , do n't help drive up the cost of dvds by supporting pirating like some other goofball suggests . you will never get as good a digital copy by burning your own , unless you 're willing to do two things : buy the most expensive digital recorder you can find , and drop any integrity you have into the ditch to steal a copy