certain times i like it , others i don't how do you separate a socially important film from a great film ? sure this film tackled the aids/homosexuality issue head-on but that does n't automatically make it a great film . i 'm not knocking this film , of course not . but there 's a lot of parts in it that i did n't like which maybe made it appear to be a lesser film than what it wants to be , it is or what everyone makes it out to be . andrew beckett works for a prestigious law firm working on a big account . his health declines a little bit nothing overly serious until he 's fired for apparently botching the case . turns out not only is he a homosexual but he has aids so he figures that 's why he was fired . he needs representation so he hires joe miller , a top and famous attorney who is , rather bluntly , very intolerant of gays . so they form an unlikely duo to battle a top firm while dealing with gay bashers to closet gays . one small nitpick : it seemed like anyone that is in andy 's family or friends circle is against him . there was not a lot of normal everyman citizens who supported him . a similar problem in brokeback mountain where any scene with the 2 men was gorgeously shot while them with their wives looked rather bland and desolate looking , complete with sad looking wives . it 's nothing that derails the film though . and i do n't know why but i never liked jonathan demme 's trademark of looking in the camera . it works for silence of the lambs but here it looks ... weird , and maybe a bit too on the nose . now tom hanks did win the award for best actor but honestly it should 've went to denzel washington who manages to be visibly struggling with his less-than-enthusiastic view on gays and the changing perspectives dealing with the case . hanks , in a way , reminds me of charlize theron who put on ugly makeup for monster . losing a crapload of weight does not automatically give you an oscar . no knock against hanks but it seems funny it went to him instead of washington . is it a watchable film ? of course , it 's quite good and performances are excellent . i do n't know whether you should blind buy it though , that 's up to you