artillery , saddam hussein and the mossad = gulf war this is the true story of dr. gerald bull played by frank langella in a simply excellent performance . kevin spacey is fantastic as a cia agent with heart . tony goldwyn , son of samuel goldwyn ( i.e . metro-goldwyn-mayer - mgm ) is perfect as the `` true company man '' for the white house nsc . alan arkin , a long-time favorite of mine , plays an israeli colonel turned into a mossad agent . and the characters playing the iraqis are really , really good . get the movie . it 's pretty factual and quite amazing indeed . here 's a few additional facts about the story to intrigue you : dr. gerald bull was the founder of space research corporation . a canadian ballistics expert , bull modified artillery weapons , worked on the usa 's haarp gun program and upgraded scud missiles for various customers . he did work for every country , except russia , which he hated ( but the scud 's he modified were russian-made ) . he also did work , through the cia , for the usa and some of its allies . his modified scud 's rained down on israel and saudi arabia , killing israelis and american troops . dr. bull had to run things through the customs services of many countries of course to move his weapons . he ran afoul of u.s. customs and got a year in a federal penitentiary for which he did not forgive the cia , instead expecting immunity . bull was contracted by saddam hussein , who at that time was a pro-u.s. interest ( against iran and supported by then-vice-president bush ) to build a `` supergun '' that would fire a 2,000 lb shell over 100 miles ( and further ) . saddam 's hope was to be able to shell israel with bio/chem weapons from an artillery gun ( which is not uncommon ) but from great range . israel had destroyed iraq 's nuclear weapons reactor ( designed to produce weapons-grade plutonium ) for which saddam vowed revenge . the mossad gave a lot of warnings to bull about helping iraq arm , which bull repeatedly ignored . the cia and british mi6 turned a blind eye to bull 's operations in iraq , for which bull , expecting protection , gave them info on the german bunkers and c & c centers saddam had constructed underground . ah , but in the spy business there are no sweethearts , and the mossad assassinated bull in brussels before he could finish the `` supergun '' ( the babylon gun ) . a smaller version , the `` baby babylon '' gun had been completed and tested at that time . however , in the movie they give the suggestion mi-6 assassinated bull as they show a silencer being screwed onto the barrel of what looks like a walthers ppk . this was all financed through a `` bank '' in america where funds were diverted from american taxpayers to saddam , ostensibly for agricultural enterprises . saddam reportedly paid bull $ 25 million for his work . the myopic viewpoint at the time was that any enemy of iran ( i.e . iraq ) is a friend of the usa . did n't quite work out that way . after bull was dead , mi6 feigned surprise at the discovery of `` supergun '' barrel pieces being constructed in a foundry in england and they were impounded before they could all be shipped out ( on iraqi il-76 transports i believe ) . some pieces did make it out to iraq . thus the silly and complicted politics of the middle east . where the usa once propped up the shah of iran and sold him 79 f-14a tomcats , he was deposed and iran became a u.s. enemy , and still is to this day . saddam , a former protected entity , invaded kuwait less than 6 months after bull was assassinated , on august 2 , 1990 - and the rest was seen on cnn 24 hours per day