`` you 'll be the first one i 'll tell when i 'm in love '' everyone , just once in their life has probably had fantasies of pistol whipping or perhaps even punching out at least one member of their family , but the embattled title character ethan mao , in maverick director , quentin lee 's saga of asian american gay dysfunctional angst gets to do this and so much more . a whole film about holding your family to ransom by gunpoint may not immediately strike viewers as the stuff of a great story , and may even be a little bit much for most , but lee manages for the most part to hold this film together , delivering up a tight , taught , if not terribly low budget package that mixes elements of the psychological thriller , coming-of-age drama , gay love story , and even black comedy . ethan mao is certainly overly ambitious in its themes and crude in its execution , but there 's a gritty and solemn earnestness to this movie , that lifts it above the usual dramas of teenage angst . what makes this movie worth viewing and so involving , and perhaps also so groundbreaking , is that it depicts a modern , urban gay asian-american teen , which is something that to my knowledge is very rare in film . the story takes off when the title character ethan mao ( jun hee lee ) has just been kicked out of his home after abraham , his father ( raymond ma ) discovered his stash of gay porn . his family is reasonably wealthy having worked hard over the years , now they 're the epitome of the immigrant success story . but ethan 's father has made the fatal mistake of putting money before the love of his family . now his days are spent catering to ethan 's gangly younger brother noel ( david tran ) , a bullying and spoilt stepson josh ( kevin kleinberg ) , and sarah , his slinky , narcissistic , ex-actress wife ( julia nickson ) . obviously being gay does n't sit well with mr. mao , so ethan is promptly ejected from the family and immediately - without exploring any other options - adopts the life of a homeless hustler , eventually meeting remigio ( jerry hernandez ) , who also works the streets . the pair develops a fierce friendship based on love , trust , and loyalty . remigio feeds ethan , gives him a home and surprisingly keeps his hands to himself . ethan , for his part has a lack of affect , which presumably signals an emotional numbness . ethan enlists remigio 's help to return to his home to pick up his belongings as well as a necklace belonging to his dead mother , but his family , who are supposed to be on a thanksgiving outing , come home . a vicious argument ensues , with the two young men holding the group hostage until the necklace can be retrieved from a safe-deposit box the next day . from here , the film mushrooms into an unlikely hostage melodrama , complete with guns , uneasy family dysfunction , along with lots of emotional recriminations . josh , the stepbrother hates ethan , and ethan hates sarah , the stepmother , while m. mao remains appalled at what his son is doing , but at the same time begins to regret the way he 's treated ethan , and the rest of his family . as the hours progress , ethan begins to enjoy his newfound power and uses it to tell everyone in the family , especially his uptight and highly traditional dad , exactly what he thinks of them and how he feels he 's been mistreated . meanwhile , remigio looks on , remaining a silent , and somewhat reluctant witness to the proceedings , and a loyal friend to ethan . ethan mao is clearly heartfelt and sincere- and an early robbery scene is particularly strong - but ultimately a facile script hampers the film , along with its low production values and its bargain basement , c-grade acting . it is also essential that the viewer feel some sympathy for ethan , but his decision to freely participate in the hustler lifestyle , when you know a boy as bright as he could do something else , makes it hard for us to really root for him . ultimately , he comes across as a bit bratty , spoiled , and sad ; he should learn to lighten up a little , even if he does have a mean father and a wicked stepmother . despite ethan mao 's obvious shortcomings , the film has an intensity and fervor that is impossible not to like . the film also works as an offbeat tale of love and friendship ; ethan and remigio , through no fault of their own , have become a couple of devoted urban hustler outlaws . thank goodness though , that we are subjected to only one of ethan 's elderly and flabby customers . mike leonard november 05 .