and stay out of new hampshire ! ! ! i was enchanted by this comedy/drama when i saw it as a youngster , and i must say the enchantment has not been diminished by time . a wonderfully directed and filmed faustian story , quintessentially american in tone , both its content and style were remarkable for those times , over 60 years ago . it is played with a light touch despite it 's deep and atmospheric ( and marvelous ) cinematography by joseph august and it 's often moody score by bernard herrmann . of course one wonders if the film would have the same buoyancy and sense of fun , despite the dark themes , if any actor played mr. scratch other than the truly wonderful walter huston . he is simply terrific here , and his performance alone is worth the price of admission . countering huston 's sly , mischievous , grinning devil is another great character actor with the gravitas to match him , and that 's edward arnold as daniel webster . i like the opening credits wherein director dieterle lists all the behind the scenes talent without titles , including himself , and at the end states `` who collaborated on this film '' . it is truly a collaboration with director and cinematographer and composer and editor ( robert wise ) all on the same page . it has some striking moments , most especially the first encounter with belle ( simone simon ) , the ghostly dance at jabez stone 's mansion , and the final eerie trial . the supporting performances , especially the always reliable jane darwell as ma stone are fine . james craig as jabez stone was a bit of a stiff , but the movie 's overall qualities compensate for him . simone simon is luscious , and the honestly presented depiction of her adulterous relationship with jabez is quite daring for the times ( one wonders how it got past the hays office ) . this came out in 1941 , and arnold 's stirring defense of jabez that exhalts all things american in the land and character of it 's people may strike some as corny , but this was made on the cusp of world war ii , and these things needed to be said then , and in a lower key , some of which would n't hurt us to be reminded of now . and , finally , there is the last great shot of huston 's scratch eating the stolen peach pie and then musingly rubbing his chin as he looks out directly at us in search of his next victim . perfect .