i liked it very much i rarely watch american tv anymore because of the chance to see crime drama at it 's best like the `` touching evil '' series . i have epals that i share my favs with and visa-versa . the `` touching evil '' series was recommended by an epal because of it 's intelligent drama . i rented it , for the lowest price , of course , just in case it was n't worth the cash . i really liked it . i do have my favorite episodes , though . the first episode , `` the lost boys '' of the series and the first episode in series 3 . series 2 and 3 do not have specific episode titles , so i call this one , `` hearts '' . `` the lost boys '' introduces detective inspector dave creegan ( robson green ) to us . creegan is volitile , yet brilliant . he had been wounded in the line of duty , which was followed by psychiatric counselling . it makes one wonder why acc enwright ( michael feast ) called him back into service . creegan 's emotional volitility caused the breakup of his marriage . after getting to know creegan as a character , the audience can see why . creegan is a `` driven '' man and has instincts that can see through the mask of a criminal as he does in `` the lost boys '' . creegan sees through the mask of university professor ronald hinks ( ian mcdiarmid-sen. palatine from star wars ) . creegan fights with enwright and other team members to get hinks arrested for kidnapping 3 boys , but hink 's lawyers have a larger case for creegan 's harrassment of hinks . creegan is teamed up with di susan taylor ( nicola walker ) , detective sargent jonathan kreitman ( adam kotz ) and detective constable mark rivers ( shaun dingwall ) . there is conflict almost immediately between the team members . i would like to see a 4th `` touching evil '' series , if only to clean up some questions before ending this intelligent series . my biggest question , of course , is `` why did enwright bring creegan back in the first place ? '' creegan made it clear that he was a `` one-to-one '' person and that selling ice cream would probably be the best job he would enjoy and he was psychologically unstable . there is also the question of why taylor was picked to partner with creegan . `` hearts '' is just plain brilliant . all the actors are at their best in this one , but robson green stands out . after the murder of a friend , he finally crosses that psychological line . green is brilliant followed by andy serkis ( dr. michael lawler ) . the other actors follow closely behind . do i recommend this series . yes , but only the british one . when we americans try to recreate a wonderful program like this , we always fall short