the ties that bind -- and break . roger michell 's `` the mother '' ranks with `` cries and whispers '' and `` long day 's journey into night '' as one of the most unpleasant , profoundly disturbing portraits of a dysfunctional family ever put on film . it is also undeniably brilliant at showing the frayed knots of family loyalty that only need one good shock to break irrevocably . hanif kureishi -- an old hand at making audiences squirm -- tells the story of may ( anne reid ) , a sixtyish housewife in a semi-rural english town , visiting her children in london with her husband toots ( peter vaughan ) . ten minutes into the movie , toots dies , leaving may totally at a loss . as the film makes plain from the beginning , may 's life has revolved entirely for decades around caring for toots . at first we think the film will be a poignant study of a woman 's grief . may does n't want to go back to her empty house , but her children plainly do n't want her around : her son bobby ( steven mackintosh ) is a cold , self-centered businessman , and her daughter paula ( cathryn bradshaw ) is a needy , whining neurotic who blames her mother for nearly everything that 's gone wrong with her life . we think the story will be about may 's learning to stand up for herself and make a new life . ( when bobby asks may not to be difficult , she stiffens and asks , `` why should n't i be difficult ? '' ) but then may meets darren ( daniel craig ) , paula 's sexy , moody boyfriend and a man half may 's age , and from then on all expectations fly straight out the window and land with a crash . i wish the publicity for the film did n't reveal what happens between may and darren , but even so the impact of it assaults the audience like the punch in the face paula eventually gives may . if the movie were just about an elderly woman 's sexuality , it would n't be so shocking ; what shocks is may 's selfish betrayal of paula , and the brutal fashion in which paula discovers it . at that moment we lose all our moorings as an audience , and have no idea who among the characters to side with , if anyone . we still have sympathy for may -- as we do n't for the patently hateful paula , darren and bobby -- but we also gasp in horror at her heedless behavior , and get an idea why her children turned out the way they did . `` the mother '' is hard to sit through , and also hard to forget .