i know she was here alfred hitchcock was n't too good at straight-out comedy , which he only did once . but he was absolutely brilliant at clever , witty thrillers , one of the earliest of which is `` the lady vanishes . '' while it has some major plot holes , hitchcock makes up for those with witty dialogue and solid acting . iris ( margaret lockwood ) is having a last girl's-night-out with her best friends , at a small alpine hotel . as she 's leaving on the train , she befriends a kindly little old governess ( dame may whitty ) -- who vanishes while iris is napping . even worse , everyone denies that the old lady existed , making iris wonder if she imagined the whole thing . she enlists the help of eccentric musician gilbert ( michael redgrave ) to help her find the old lady , once they are both convinced that the lady existed . now the pair must go through the train in search of the old lady -- but they never expected to uncover an international conspiracy , which could leave them all dead . `` the lady vanishes '' was a pretty early movie of hitchcock 's , and at the end we 're left wondering about several oddities in the plot ( how is an eighty-year-old lady so athletic ? how inept can those foreign agents be ? ) . as a spy thriller it 's flawed but passable ... but it 's very good as a comedic mystery . hitchcock takes his time introducing us to these characters , by having them all bunk at one overcrowded hotel . one particularly funny scene has gilbert invading iris 's suite , after she has him ejected from his room , and strewing his things all over as she orders him to leave . but hitchcock also captures the claustrophobic feeling of being menaced on a train . as well as the feisty socialite and weird musician , the movie is sprinkled with cricket-obsessed brits , ebullient hoteliers , and bickering adulterous lovers . they all do fairly solid jobs , with redgrave as a charming , slightly odd standout . and they all get some entertaining dialogue , no matter how stodgy they are . ( `` my father always taught me , never desert a lady in trouble . he even carried that as far as marrying mother . '' ) you 'd expect criterion to do the best job with this film . but in terms of quality for your money , i found that the diamond entertainment version is pretty good . the picture is fairly clear , neither too light nor too dark , and the soundtrack is clean except for a slight crackle in the opening credits . not too bad for a mere four dollars . `` the lady vanishes '' is a comedic mystery that does n't quite work as a spy thriller . but it 's still an entertaining , taut little movie . definitely a keeper