the future as we know it the future is wild takes a peek into the future as we know it . there are three discs . the first one is set five million years into the future . it is the middle of another ice age . there is an introduction and four episodes . every other disc has four episodes . episode 1 : return of the ice shagrats stuggle to survive as they are stalked by hungry snowstalkers . the shagrat looks like a cross between a capybara and a lemming . the snowstalker is a white cat with sabre-tooth like fangs . episode 2 : the vanished sea the bottom of europe and the tip of africa has come together , blocking off the mediterrainean from the atlantic ocean . this has caused all the water to evaporate , only leaving a salt flat.on this salt flat lives a family of cryptiles , lizard-like animals that run on two legs . islands , have become small patches of land covered with crevases . on the crevases , lives the scrofa , a pig-like animal that is in constant danger . episode 3 : praries of the amizonia the amazon rainforest has died out and become a vast plain . on these plains , karakillers hunt in groups to track down the babookaris . also , the rattleback has evolved from various marsupiels and has formed a fire-proof exterior . episode 4 : cold kansas desert the rattleback is also making a stand in the kansa desert . a bird species called the spinks , has adapted to underground life through the raging sandstorms . also , the deathgleaners hunt for them on the surface like bats . the second disc travels 100 million years into the future to find out more about the corse of evolution . episode 5 : waterland the octopus family is taking its irst crawls onto land . the new name is the swampus . their nest are located in plants , wich are in consistant danger of being toppled over by torutons . torutons are 120 ton creatures that feed on 1,323 pounds of food a day . surprizingly , there closest relatives today is the tiny tortoise . in the water , the lurkfish is always wating to shock its prey with 1,000 volts of electricity . episode 6 : flooded world this episode is set in the shallow seas of the future . many , many jellyfish have formed together to form the ocean phantom . in the ocean phantom 's tenticles , the spindle trooper is always ready to get the food . by food , i mean the reef glider . episode 7 : tropical antarctica antarctica has come north to the equator . as a result , it is covered with lush rainforests . these rainforests are home to spitfire beetles and spitfire birds . the flutterbird is also a welcome guest to this new antarctica . episode 8 : the great plateau a great blue windrunner dominates the high altitudes of the new plateau . the plateau was formed when australia when north and struck north america and asia . the great blue windrunner is a four winged bird that relys on the silver spider for food . the silver spider relys on the last mammal ever , the poggle , to give them food . they feed the poggle until it is fat enough , and then they kill it and feed the poor creature to the queen . on the final disc , the timestream eccelerates to 200 million years into an alien world . episode 9 : the endless desert 100 million years earlier , a massive asteroid impact wiped out 95 percent of the earth 's life-forms . after the world recovered , pangea ii became the new land mass . the endless desert was home to a veriety of creatures like the terabyte , and antlike insect thet shot sticky goo at its prey . its prey , meaning the centapede-like garden worm , was helpless . in the water , the gloomworm and the slickribbon live in a bloody world . eisode 10 : the global ocean with one landmass , there was one ocean . the ocean flish flew over this ocean and fed on the common silver swimmer . but the food chain dos n't stop there . the rainbow squid feasts on the flish and the sharkopah considers the rainbow squid a delicacy . episode 11 : graveland desert this world is home to a one legged snail called the desert hopper . these creatures share their desert home with a menagerie of other aliens including the deathbottle , the grimworm , and the bumblebeetle . episode 12 : tentacled desert in this final episode , squids have evolved to immense sizes , and have moved onto the land perminantly . the megasquid is a perfect example . this beast is larger then an elephant ! though it is huge , its flaw is that it is not very smart . its treetop dwelling relative , the squibbon , is very social and very smart . this species could even trigger another civilization ... this is the exact reason that the future is wild