rare collection of early cinema at a very good price this set consists of 40 short films and series photographs shot between 1894 and 1913 . arranged in roughly chronological order , with the earlier pieces subdivided into categories ( `` edison kinetoscopes , '' `` lumiere films , '' `` actualities '' ) , they present an overview of the early silent era of motion pictures . most people have seen stills or excerpts from such films as `` a voyage to the moon '' and `` the great train robbery , '' but seldom have people had the chance to experience such pioneering works in their entirety . this is not a disc for everybody . only those who have a keen interest in the development of motion pictures at their earliest phase will appreciate it . if you are one of those , like me , consider this a must buy . in addition to scripted comedies and dramas , there are a number of films that simply record everyday life at the turn of the last century . there is `` arrival of a train at la ciotat '' , which is said to have panicked early audiences who failed to grasp that the approaching train was n't going to come through the screen and run them over . other films , such as `` snowball fight '' and `` seminary girls '' are staged with the intent of creating the appearance of spontaneity . either way , these rarely seen films are important documents of a recent past that is so different from our present that it 's hard to believe that they were shot only a century ago . the dolby digital mono sound is clear and well presented . many of the films are tastefully scored with newly recorded piano music , while others are paired with period recordings . `` skyscrapers of new york city from north river , '' for example , is particularly haunting when viewed with its mysterious , unidentified musical accompaniment drifting from the speakers . a good number of films in this collection date back to the 1890 's , and a lot of them are a lot better looking than i would have thought . some films , like train robbery , even have their original hand painted color tints intact . one of the neat things about the dvd is the freeze frame , because i was able to spot a single frame in one of the kinetiscope films that was slipped in to read `` copyright 1907 t.a . edison . '' this is not a disc that 's about features , other than being able to zip from film to film versus fast forwarding on vhs , nor is it one to show off your home theatre . this is a film for those with a serious interest film history only