two good pairings this disk contains two westerns , both staring jimmy stewart and henry fonda . the pair works well together in very different roles . the first is a comedy and the second is a drama . in the first they are buddies , in the second they are enemies . in both , they are splendid . individual reviews appear below : the cheyenne social club this one 's a hoot jimmy stewart and henry fonda play a couple of cowboys working on the range . when stewart gets a letter he is surprised to learn that his bother has died and left him his business . it is a placed called the cheyenne social club . so it is that stewart and his sidekick , fonda , set out for wyoming with the expectation of becoming respectable business men . upon arrival , stewart learns that he is the most popular and respected man in town . he also learns that his social club is a brothel . this strikes him as not being `` in his line of work '' and he determines to close the place down . that takes him from being the most respected to the most reviled man in town . he has some hard decisions to make and even more trouble appears when he learns that there are contractual agreements between his shop and the railroad . things get more complicated still when he learns that there are some ruffians roughing up some of his girls . stewart is just a nice guy trying to do the `` right thing '' . eventually , he does ... much to his own surprise . firecreek sometimes the little guys win this is another pairing of jimmy stewart and henry fonda in a western . stewart plays a farmer , respected by his peers and given the honorary title of sheriff in his town . the tile also comes with a home made tin badge and 20 dollars . it is a sign of esteem and nothing more . fonda plays the leader of a group of gunmen with vague notions about law and order . when passing through town , they decide to stop there a little while and rest . nobody really minds that but they do object to being treated like vermin by the gunmen who get a bit wild when they drink . fonda does not really approve of what they do but is reluctant to come down on them too hard for fear of alienating them . that means that it is up to the sheriff to keep order . keeping order is a hard job . he is not trained and he is certainly no gunfighter . he is just a farmer . the townspeople encourage him just to ignore things in the hope that the bad guys will eventually go away . all are frightened . when a friend is lynched , though , stewart decides that enough is enough and takes on the whole gang . this is one of those films in which the little guy manages to stand up to the bully , survive and even win . it comes at a cost , though .