the great muttering sailor man opinions are like noses : everyone has one . some like it , some do n't . let me say this , however , in defense of this 1980 movie starring robin williams as popeye . it is certainly unfair to say , by any stretch , that this is 'the worst movie of all-time ' , or 'one of the worst ... ' . it is funny how , at the time of this writing , that the average vote for this film is about 4.5 stars ... actually that is about right . for those who do not know about the wonderful website called the internet movie database ( imdb.com ) , you really need to check it out . [ ... ] my point is this : there are many opinions . so if you have never seen this movie , decide for yourself . do you remember the incredible muttering popeye ( done by jack mercer on the cartoons ) ? . i 'm talking especially about the early fleischer studios popeye cartoons from the 30 's . you know , the ones in black-and-white . that 's what i loved the most , the muttering popeye . well , robin williams does it superbly ! also , shelly duvall is excellent as olive oyl in this movie . granted , the story is kind of bland . the music is not always top notch . yes , it is too long . however , i enjoyed watching robin williams ' masterful portrayal of everyone 's favorite sailor man . sure , olive can get a little annoying at times , but was n't she basically that way in the cartoons ? so if you loved the muttering popeye , then you 'll love the movie , overall . never mind the story . the storyline does n't really matter , i feel . but , alas , you say you can not really remember those vintage popeye cartoon shorts too well . not to worry ! they are scheduled to be released on dvd ... fully restored ! ! ! volume 1 ( 1933 - 1938 ) , with a july 2007 scheduled release , will have , in my opinion , the very best of all the 230 total popeye cartoon shorts . ( incidently , william costello provided popeye 's voice from 1933 until sometime in 1935 . he was very good also , but the really great muttering came when jack mercer took over in 1935 ) . by all means , if you are a huge popeye fan like myself , then you absolutely must get these dvds . after listening to the great jack mercer , and watching the incredible animation in those early years , then compare popeye to robin williams ' version . i dare say , you will see the similarity . so , the bottom line is : see for yourself . if you love popeye , the character , then you will not be disappointed with robin williams ' performance . the movie itself ... well , you be the judge . likely you have a nose , so without a doubt you , too will have an opinion . it 's all alright .