a good value this is , in effect , two related but different movies packaged together for marketing purposes . both are funny and being offered together makes them a bit more affordable . reviews of both appear below . support your local sheriff james garner always does a great job in playing acerbic comic roles and his role in this one is no exception . he plays a man who is hired as sheriff in a gold rush boom town and who takes the job seriously enough to clean the place up . he does so with wit and charm and the bad guys never no what hit them . bruce dern plays the first guy he arrests . he is a bad one but not to bright . this is a good thing since the bars for the jail have not been installed yet . walter brennan plays dern 's father . he is the head of the outlaw family but just ca n't seem to get his way with the sheriff . his performance too is a delight . jack elam plays the deputy and harry morgan plays the mayor . all do a wonderful job . there is always something to laugh at in this one . support your local gunfighter support your local sheriff was a comic masterpiece and cried out , at least in terms on dollars and cents , for a sequel . so they made one , only it wasn't almost all of the cast from the sheriff appear in gunfighter but they all play completely different characters . nothing is the same except that it takes place in the west and is funny , but not as funny as the original . james garner plays the role of latigo smith . he is a man on the run , not from the law but from a woman who expects to marry him . he goes to ground in purgatory , a mining town . his arrival is noted by the owner of one of the town 's two competing mining companies . they think he is a gunfighter hired by the other company . he 's not but sees financial opportunity in the confusion . he passes himself off as the agent for the gunfighter ( less danger and stress ) and cons a down on his luck cowboy into playing the part of the gunfighter . this is not a movie filled with excitement or drama . it is a comedy . it is not as funny as sheriff but it is funny in its own right .