maximum acceleration there is very little not to like about the flash . a super hero , lightning speed , and evil villains . best of all , the flash appears on and off throughout the episode . this is quite a change from those cheesy super hero television series of the 1970s where we were limited to a glimpse of our hero only twice during the show : once during the first 20 minutes and again in the final five minutes . the flash was a natural extension of warner brothers ' success with the batman motion picture . in fact , the flash shared many of tim burton film 's elements : a darker superhero , most of the stories taking place at night , and danny elfman music . comic book loyalists were quick to point out the deviations from print , but given the choice it was better to have the flash for one reason than not at all . cbs premiered the flash during the 1990 - 1991 television season . as numerous reviewers have reiterated , the show was doomed to fail because of cbs programming mismanagement . the early 1990s was a time when abc , cbs , and nbc still held most of the cards as `` the networks . '' as networks they crowded their programming line up with series , sitcoms , mini-series , sporting events , and specials . the flash was often displaced from its time slot so often that fans could not keep up with it . at times it also aired at the same time as other popular shows such as the simpsons and the cosby show . contributing to the show 's demise was that the first gulf war , desert shield/desert storm , was constantly in the news and a regular source for special news reports . the show should have been awarded a second season , but cbs had zero tolerance for low ratings . a couple years later the flash probably would have found better success on fox or cw . alas , it was not to be . thus it was that i was surprised by the show when it appeared on the british satellite station sky one in 1992 . at that time sky one was also beamed to continental europe and provided an additional , and sorely needed , english language television channel for us military personnel in germany . unfortunately i was not able to catch the whole series . by the time we added a satellite dish to our german apartment balcony the flash was only a couple episodes away from finishing its run on sky one . a couple years later i stumbled on two video cassettes of the series , the pilot episode and a `` movie '' assembled from two episodes involving the trickster , and was able to enjoy a little more of the series . the dvd set is very affordable . if your remember the series from 1990 , now is your time to order the dvds and enjoy them at your liesur