ignore the ignorant jibes ... this film is truly outstanding . i 've just endured an unpleasant half hour trawling through the myriad reviews of `` grand canyon '' , that are so misinformed as to be laughable . aside from the fact that the new york times may have awarded this the `` worst film of all time '' ( in a year that `` robin hood - prince of thieves '' was released ? ? - please ! ) i find these attitude of such reviewers quite lamentable . grand canyon is a magnificent film - and absolutlely not just the purview of `` new agers '' ! anyone who has studied film to even a marginal degree will recognise the greatness in grand canyon . no , it 's not `` the godfather '' ... yet it is still one of the finest films of its time . to those it touches ( and there are many ) , it is unforgettable . kasdan had a vision that was unfortunately ahead of its time ( and still appears to be in 2006 , judging from some of the reviews here ! ) . certainly not `` the big chill '' , grand canyon is a far more nuanced work - to those who understand its subtleties , it is sublime - to those still struggling to comprehend the mysteries , magic and meaning of our existance here , i can see how it might appear impenetrable or pretentious . that is no fault of the film itself - just as `` deuce bigalow '' is speaking to its chosen audience of prepubertal adolescents , so is grand canyon attempting to connect with those humans who choose to delve beneath the flimsy facade of modern existance . to the opinion-makers , it will naturally slip under their radar ; do n't let that be a reason for you missing this unmissable film . to anyone considering this film , i implore you - do not be distracted by the inane ramblings of posters who would n't understand a truly meaningful film if they fell over it . grand canyon is for a select audience - it will never be widely popular ; as if that were any true marker of what is important ! grand canyon stands tall as one of the great achievements of the 1990s - watch it , and be moved . watch it , and see a reflection of the world we currently find ourselves in - striving for answers , yearning for meaning ... and looking all the while for the magic that defines our existance . absolutely five stars