the original ... the best tarzan of all ! without a doubt , johnny weissmuller 's interpretation of tarzan is the best of all ! an excellent swimmer , johnny weissmuller makes the swimming scenes seem effortless and believable . maureen o'sullivan as jane provides elegance , as a gentle yet brave and courageous woman , who falls in love with a man , king of the jungle , and yet completely unaware of civilization . the house tarzan builds for her is a marvel of progress , with the latest technological advancements ... in a rudimentary ... simple ... basic construction . when edgar rice burroughs created tarzan he played on our survival instincts , and surfaced the innate fears of confronting savage beasts , and yet , the fantasy that we can become friends with all jungle creatures . tarzan and his mate - simply best in class . it explores how life should have been for adam & eve ... in love , living in paradise , respecting nature , and living in complete harmony with the environment . not spoiling and accepting the simple things offered by our planet earth . tarzan escapes - from civilization , jane 's cousins visit the mutia escarpment , only to realize that she has found true love , family , and home in africa . the marvel of the home created by tarzan is highlighted , with the elephant-powered elevator becoming a fascinating process to watch . tarzan finds a son ! - here we meet a new addition to the family , played by johnny sheffield as boy . both tarzan and jane now have a play pal , and he does a magnificent job at allowing the audience to see how we can grow up in this environment and learn survival skills that keep him active , healthy , and self-assured . great for a younger audience , adding fun and adventure to this wonderful set . tarzan 's new york adventure one of the best scenes ever filmed is when johnny weissmuller dives off the washington bridge , and makes it all look possible , doable ... and easy . what precision ! this movie is fun and cheetah provides many a laugh . the struggle between good and evil are played to perfection in this series , where those in search for profit and wealth , are always trying to take advantage of the many natural treasures that surround tarzan 's simple life , and it is rewarding to see how the hero never gives in to avarice , defending and maintaining his world in its natural state . we loved the set ... and when we visit the zoo ... or go to the circus ... we find ourselves looking at elephants and monkeys and saying ... `` simba ... ungawa ! '' `` simba ... ungawa ! '' would highly recommend acquiring this set