how do you like what you see ? class of 1984 has always been marketed as as a b exploitation film . hell , i remember when i was a kid finding it in the `` horror '' section of the local video store ! though the film does have it 's exploitation elements for sure , class of 1984 is a damn good movie . it could have been promoted as a more serious film ( it actually was intended to be a more serious drama ) and win over more critics , but like they mention in the documentary featurette , the scenes of violence and punk rockers and such were enough to prejudice some people into thinking the movie was something less than what it actually was . i never saw much of perry king 's work before or after this , but he 's a very good choice as a kind of wimpy music teacher who thinks that through the power of knowledge , he can help the troubled teen , timothy van patten . in fact , king 's music class is probably the best behaved of the entire school with van patten as the only real rotten apple in the bunch ... when he attends . pretty boy van patten is kind of a teenage godfather who runs drugs and hookers out of a punk rock club . his gang consists of three annoying thugs and one very annoying chick . when king pisses van patten off , the war begins . it starts off pretty simple with vandalism and practical jokes , but ends up being quite deadly . king goes through the movie in the role of dogooder throughout all of van patten 's antics . i think most guys would have broken down long before king 's character does , but when king does break down it 's well worth the wait . if you let yourself get into the story , this movie will make your blood boil as you feel the frustration king feels . whenever he retaliates , he 's the one who gets in trouble , though you know he 's really not doing anything wrong . it 's like in real school where a guy would hit you with a spitball and no one would ever see him , but you 'd be the one caught when you fired a spitball back . plus the frustration mounts coz every rotten act van patten commits is brushed off coz `` no one saw him do it '' and the fact that he 's a juvenile . the film builds to a fantastic final confrontation that gets downright brutal . lots of great performances all around . van patten should have gone on to be a bigger star , but it never happened . he 's does a great job as the evil , sly psychopath . of course special praise must be given to roddy mcdowell . he 's fantastic in this . they could n't have picked a better guy for the job . many thanks go out to anchor bay for putting this great film out on dvd . there 's a good halfhour documentary on the disc that speaks mainly to director lester , as well as two of the actors . recommended very highly . yesiree , bob