he named his dog after ronald reagan . this was one of those mythological films that i speak so highly of in other reviews . this was a gem hidden in the darkness . looking at the cover , you would never guess that this would be such a powerhouse of a film , but let me be the first to say that it was . berenger and winger are amazing in their roles . winger giving the best performance that i have ever seen her do , while berenger takes a character riddled with evil and makes him human . when i first began this film , i was expecting a very true hollywood production . one that would be dark at first , but all of the sudden create this happy world at the end . this film did nothing close to that . what was amazing about this film was that it let the audience make it 's own decisions . not much was handed to you on a silver platter . upon the first ten minutes of this film , you would probably assume that it was a love story . it is anything but a love story . it is a crime/thriller/drama film , and quite possibly one of the strongest that i have seen in some time . there are some scenes in this film that i could n't believe i was watching . the sheer brilliance of the director left me wondering if this film was really made in 1988 . the cinematography was outstanding . there is one scene that stands out the most in my mind . after berenger tries to `` put down '' his dying horse , he ca n't pull himself to shoot a living creature , so he has his side-kick do it . after it is done , he runs out into the rain behind berenger wrapped in a plastic tarp . the image here is of the devil riding close behind . it is so vivid and so beautifully done that you ca n't help to wonder what that may represent . there are a couple of scenes very similar to this as well . now , this is n't a film without some small flaws . the young girl was annoying . perhaps i find young children in these types of films always to be annoying , but in this case it was especially bad . also , there were some dopey scenes to this film . there were some parts that i felt i was the director of the film watching some bad lines happen between berenger and winger ... but it was only a couple . betrayed ends like an open-ended question . it tells you that justice has been served , but not eliminated . it does not paint a pretty picture of our society . be prepared if you see this for some embarrassing , yet disturbing images of ethnic hatred in this film . some scenes that you will not believe ever happens in our country , but in the back of your mind you know certain evils do exist . but then also be prepared to see john mahoney ( of say anything ... fame ) do his best work ever . the war took his son , the bank took his land , why should n't he fight in this battle of supremacy ? dark and impressive ... wow , i am lucky to have found this one . grade : ***** out of ****