high energy creativity jamie oliver is a highly creative cook who inspires cooks everywhere and even inspires people who have never cooked before . to say he is entertaining would be an understatement . i have yet to see anything like the jamie oliver tour . he includes just about every element of entertainment possible in one show . it is a game show , cooking class , cooking competition , music gig , sports event , comedy show , talk show ( he almost interviews some of the audience members ) , magic show and sing along . basically this is jamie oliver 's mind on cooking and he is in constant motion , meeting every challenge and even batting oranges into the audience to select people to join him on stage . the recipes are simple to make and after watching this show you might find yourself trying out something new , and not even measuring anything . i tried his idea with the foil bag to cook fish and it was one of the best dinners i 've ever made . the ideas transcend recipes and enter the arena of creative exploration . you can cook with what you have in the kitchen . do n't have leeks ? try onions and potatoes . want to learn to make your own pasta ? is it really as simple as eggs and flour ? watching jamie oliver maker pasta is like watching an artist create . where he excels is in how he transfers his knowledge to the audience members and they to learn to make pasta , right on stage and he turns it into a competition . while fast paced and wildly funny , there are a few casual moments to relax . jamie challenges himself to make pizza before the pizza guy arrives . he orders pizza and then tosses flour on the counter and begins to make pizza dough from scratch . his ideas about sun dried tomatoes and fresh mozzarella will make you wish you 'd been to the store for the ingredients . in fact , you might want to stock up on ingredients and cook along with jamie . he really helps to make life less ordinary and more extraordinary . the new apartment is the entire stage and the set is filled with surprises to entertain . you will start to wish you had a kitchen computer . jamie leaves the set now and then and there is a screen showing a night out on the town , what it is like to cook in a restaurant kitchen and his wife checks in with him to find out what he is making for dinner . he even makes a cheesecake and then delivers it for a birthday party . by watching jamie cook , you can learn basic techniques , time saving tricks and creative uses for herbs and spices . everything he has taught me to make through his shows and this dvd has turned out to be absolutely delicious and i love the fact that a lot of the things i learn do n't require me to measure ingredients . ~therebeccareview.com