very good thriller that follows the spanish tradition while i was watching this movie there was one thing i could not get out of my head : it looks as if the script had been written by arturo perez-reverte . this in itself means considerable praise for the director and screenplay writer mateo gil , who adapted a novel by juan bonilla , since perez-reverte is one of my favorite authors . before discussing other aspects of the film , i must say that i did not notice any of the problems mentioned by other reviewers regarding the quality of the dvd . i am not an expert in technology , so the reason for this may be that my dvd player adapts better than others to different formats , but i really do not know . simon cardenas , played by eduardo noriega is a writer suffering from writer 's block , who in the meantime works creating crosswords for a newspaper in seville . at the start of the last holy week of the millennium he gets a strange message on his answering machine . the caller requests that he uses a particular word in a set place in the next crossword puzzle or there will be consequences for simon 's friends and family . the word in question is `` adversario '' , and simon decides to play along ; but this leads to a series of attacks starting with the release of sarin , a poisonous gas , inside a church . simon decides to start investigating and searching for the source of the attacks , and that is how he meets maria , the journalist that is in charge of the investigation for the newspaper . from then on , things get really interesting , when more attacks are noticed , and simon and maria get involved in the action . also , simon 's roommate ( toad ) starts acting weird and has some suspicious items in his possession , leading to a certain level of paranoia in simon . whether this is justified or not , only time can tell . an interesting script and reasonably good performances make this an enjoyable movie . if you like to discover new places , the impeccable sights of the city of seville will give the movie and added flare . for those of you that are used to american thrillers , this film may provide a break from the norm . if you have read authors like perez-reverte , you know what i mean , since in the spanish tradition , you do not always find the extremely twisted plots or the consistent happy endings you see in american films . whether you will get these elements in this movie or not is for you to find out .