remarkable ! pure visual poetry sergei eisenstein 's que viva mexico is a film that captures the majesty , awe , and tragedy of mexico better than any other i have ever seen . and it does so not with dialogue or plot , but rather thru `` a sequence of short novellas '' ( eisenstein 's words ) which each develop and play convincingly into the next . each of these vignettes to me display a celebration of real mexican culture and a subtle depreciation of those things which came from spain . they evoke the heart of true mexican patriotism as if it were struck directly from a rivera mural . for anyone interested in mexico or mexican cinema , que viva mexico is an absolute must . que viva mexico is certainly one of the most famous `` unfinished '' films in history , with a tragic star-laced history about which whole books have been published . in a few words , sergei eisenstein went to hollywood but was almost immediately ostracized by the old studio moguls . douglas fairbanks and charlie chaplin led him to the famed moralist , communist , and novelist upton sinclair , who agreed to finance a south-of-the border film . the budget was $ 25k and shooting was to take four months . sinclair 's brother-in-law was to tag along and supervise . a couple of eisenstein 's russians comrades would handle the cinematography and equipment . exactly what happened after that is a matter of some dispute , including countless cross and counter accusations of extremely lewd behavior and fabulous revelry . what is certain is that after 11 months in mexico the film was still missing its final section and sinclair pulled the plug on the whole operation . furious , he then managed to block eisenstein 's return to america and convince stalin he had been a poor communist . sinclair kept all the footage and eisenstein was sent back to russia in shame . eisenstein still believed he could make a great film out of his footage and fought to get it back , but sinclair refused and had it edited by his own hollywood producer . from this work came the feature thunder over mexico ( 1933 ) and the shorts eisenstein in mexico ( 1933 ) and death day ( 1934 ) . while these versions influenced great future directors like welles , huston , bunuel , and leone , they were not the real vision of the great director . in the 1970s , the russians finally got the reels , and grigori aleksandrov , who had been there and assisted with the original filming , put it back together following eisenstein 's original plan . back to the film , it is essentially a silent with narration , a music track , and limited sound effects added . i do n't have any problem with this as the alternative would have been to fabricate intertitles which would have been even less natural . anyway talkies were already completely dominant by 1932 and chaplin used a sound effect track in all his later silents . the musical track is sheer magic and certainly benefits from the extra years . there is an abrupt break when the final unfilmed section is reached , before we are taken back to the day of the dead epilogue . frankly , i do n't think much was lost here : eisenstein was right when he said he did n't need that last segment to finish the film . the third segment was already just a bit long , and adding the fourth ( a continuation of the third ) would have unbalanced the film . hence i would have just run the third segment straight into a more somber start of the epilogue . but the way it was done does show us what was `` lost '' , so in that sense it is valid . my only qualm with this dvd is the fact that it does n't have spanish subtitles , as i think all mexicans should experience this film ! one last thing : the 1946 epoca dorada classic enamorada by famed mexican director emilio fernandez could be seen as a sort of tribute film to eisenstein and que viva mexico , as it basically fills out a story based on the sodadera lost segment of this film .