more a tribute to 70 's steve martin than silvers though based on the famous character in phil silver 's famous oldie tv show , the new `` sergeant bilko '' is less an homage to that show than it is to the classic steve martin of his 1970 's days . though this bilko ( again a shifty and tireless grafter , the evil face of non-coms everywhere ) is very much the opportunist that silvers ' character was ( he runs the base casino ) , as shy of risk as silvers was ( the unit 's mobilization orders for desert storm mysteriously disappeared ) and manages to get caught in his own dealings as silvers had ( bilko botches the fixing of an army boxing match , unwittingly tricking each boxer to think he 's the one who 's supposed to take a fall ) the screwball zaniness is very much out of steve martin 's snl days . the script has bilko 's unit charged with testing a brand new army weapon - a `` hovertank '' that is soon to be cancelled because , among other things , it simply does n't work . that the hovertank 's end will spell doom for his own cozy position does n't seem to bother bilko , mostly because he lives day-to-day . things change when the officer charged with evaluating the hovertank turns out to be the fearsome major thorn ( phil hartman ) . years earlier , bilko unwittingly made an enemy of thorn by accidentally implicating him in one of his bitched schemes . now a major , thorne is n't simply content enough to eliminate the hovertank , but must now axe bilko as well . they say that desperate times reveal the man , and bilko is now revealed to be the spineless weasel his troops have come to love . martin plays bilko like a character from one of his old snl skits . it 's sort of fun to watch the guy work on material we have n't seen since his more sedate days playing less zany funnymen ( `` la story '' , `` roxanne '' ) and more mature dramatic roles ( `` the spanish prisoner '' , `` grand canyon '' and that update of `` silas marner '' ) . it 's light and breezy and you 'll probably forget most of the gags , and the script under-uses most of the supporting cast ( especially the now late-great phil hartman as bilko 's evil nemesis ) , but it 's still fun