do the hustle : newman makes fast eddie felson a hollywood legend let 's face it , what can i possibly say about robert rossen 's exquisitely hard-edged classic that has n't been said before ? `` the hustler '' is an astounding and uncompromising drama that seems as fresh today as it did 45 years ago . so often we 'll look back at the classics -- and , as is appropriate , they might seem dated . times change and that is reflected in cinema . `` the hustler , '' though , is one of the rare films that was so sophisticated , so intelligent , and so honestly raw -- that its power has not been diminished by the years . set in a very unglamorous world of pool halls and back rooms , `` the hustler '' is a testosterone fueled excursion into the life and pursuits of one of hollywood 's most notorious anti-heroes -- fast eddie felson . nominated for eight oscars , this refreshingly adult film cemented paul newman 's status as one of our greatest actors . the story of `` the hustler '' is surprisingly simplistic . a brash young pool shark sets his sights on defeating one of the game 's greatest players -- minnesota fats ( jackie gleason , at his best ) . but getting up on fats is n't enough -- no , he wants to crush his opponent . eddie 's naked and uncompromising drive eventually becomes his undoing as his winning streak turns to defeat . despondent and broke , eddie aligns with an equally desperate love interest . sarah , played by piper laurie ( never better ) , is a bitter alcoholic who has given up on life . but her complicated romance with eddie seems to hint at the possibility of new hope . eddie , however , ca n't change his spots overnight and an encounter with an unscrupulous manager ( george c. scott ) just might get eddie a second chance at fats . for good or for bad , it seems eddie is destined to go down that road again . paul newman imbues eddie with much cockiness , bravado , arrogance , ambition , and even desperation . in my opinion , it is newman 's best and most multi-layered performance . this ( along with `` hud '' ) celebrated newman as a new type of leading man -- someone you could like and despise at once . morally questionable , perhaps even amoral at times , newman was not afraid to be despicable . while only oscar nominated for this film , ironically he won roughly 25 years later for reprising eddie for `` the color of money . '' laurie , scott , and gleason all picked up oscar nods as well . the film is impeccably acted and beautifully filmed . not just for those with an interest in pool , `` the hustler '' is a searing drama that stands as a deft character study of a man figuring out what is important after all . while the collector 's edition seems to be handsomely packaged as a two disc set , whether or not it 's worth the upgrade from the special edition seems a bit suspect . both have widescreen presentation , commentary from newman and `` time '' film critic richard schickel ( among others ) , and features on `` how to make the shot '' and `` the hustler : the inside story . '' this new addition adds four featurettes -- '' life in the fast lane : fast eddie felson and the search for greatness , '' `` milestones in cinema history : the making of the hustler , '' `` swimming with sharks : the art of the hustle , '' and `` paul newman : hollywood 's cool hand . '' so it 's a judgment call whether or not you feel these extra shorts will add to your viewing experience . if you do n't own the film , then it 's a no-brainer ! either way , `` the hustler '' is a true classic . one of newman 's best ( if not best ) performances make this gritty and timeless drama a must own dvd . kgharris , 04/07