no is not an answer ! if you like gangster flicks , especially of the cockney 'firm ' variety , then you need to see this movie . sexy beast is a fantastic but underrated indie classic . like some of the other reviewers , i could watch this movie over and over again . gal dove ( ray winstone ) is a retired london mobster now living in spain , going to fat in idyllic bliss with his former porn actress wife dee dee ( amanda redman ) and their best friends , a married couple they 've known from when they were back in the life . into their domestic paradise enters don logan ( ben kingsley ) , another 'old friend , ' showing up unannounced , telling gal he has a job for him and `` no is not an answer . '' logan is one of those small wiry guys who make up for what they lack in height and muscle with an extra dose of psychotic meanness . crime boss teddy bass ( excellently played with menacing reticence by ian mcshane ) is planning an ambitious heist on a prestigious bank , logan is to help assemble the crew . logan wants gal in on the job and , as far as he 's concerned , he 's already made gal 's mind up for him . for logan it is only a matter of how little stroking he will need to do before he strikes . in one scene , it 's late and everyone is in bed , except logan who is in the bathroom shaving . standing in front of the mirror he starts thinking about gal 's refusal earlier in the evening . he begins muttering . needing to relieve himself , he continues thinking and muttering as he urinates all over the floor . by now , having worked himself up into a rage , he runs out the bathroom with shaving cream still on his face , down the hall and , screaming `` no ! no ! no ! '' storms into gal and dee dee 's bedroom kicking and punching the poor man out of his own bed . another scene in the movie shows logan sitting on a plane which will soon depart . thinking nothing of consideration for fellow passengers , or rules and regulations , he lights up a cigarette . when one of the passengers mildly protests , logan calmly but coldly informs the man that if he must put out the cigarette , he will be putting it out on him . when a flight attendant intervenes , logan gets up , grabs his bag and -- after telling all onboard he hopes the plane crashes and they all die -- demands to get off . after being removed and brought to airport security , logan explains to the security officer the incident was all a case of nerves . he concocts a tale about a male flight attendant groping him while boarding ! with a straight face , he tells the man that he felt violated and was literally in shock , not even realizing he was smoking a cigarette ! of course , he does n't wish to make a fuss about any of it and would just like to leave and forget the whole thing . he walks out the airport , right into a taxi and back to making gal 's life hell . i could n't stop laughing ! ben kingsley does for sexy beast what joe pesci did for goodfellas . both portray sociopaths , incapable of true consideration and comapassion . the way they selfishly crash through life is so disturbing it 's comes off comical . not giving too much of the story away , but gal does return to london to do the job . however , not for the reasons you might think . instead , something occurs which makes gal feel it necessary to get to london , complete the job and return to spain quickly as possible . ian mcshane is brilliant in this final segment of the film .