triple-feature delight ! the strange case of dr. jekyll and mr. hyde is one of my favorite stories , and this dvd contains two excellent film versions -- three , if one counts the bugs bunny jekyll-hyde animated short , which is definitely a bonus ! the audio commentary is also an excellent feature , as it delivers a lot of fascinating information regarding both versions featured on this dvd as well as the john barrymore version from the 1920 's . now for the main features : the 1930 's version with fredric march is highly entertaining , and although it certainly fits the mold of a `` creature feature , '' it carries with it an intelligence that distinguishes it from a typical monster flick . fredric march himself is excellent in the dual role of the saint-like ( and eventually tortured ) dr. jekyll and the initially humorous , but ultimately horrifically sadistic mr. hyde . the ape-like hyde make-up in this film is excellent , especially for its time , but the transformation sequence is even more impressive , as it is done fairly realistically . also , the film sticks to the basic storyline , and the use of the fiance/dancer dichotomy adds an interesting twist to the `` strange case . '' this is a must-see for all fans of horror movies , especially those who enjoy classic horror films . the 1940 's version of dr. jekyll/mr . hyde with spencer tracy is also a highly entertaining and excellent film . there are those who do not consider this a horror film -- i would have to disagree with them completely . although this film is a rather lush production of the jekyll/hyde story , spencer tracy 's hyde ends up being rather horrific in his character , all because of an effective portrayal by a more-than-capable actor . he ( tracy ) manages to add a more humorous touch to both personalities ( jekyll and hyde ) , and his jekyll seems genuinely exhausted from the numerous misdeeds of his alter ego . as for the hyde make-up , it is considerably more human-looking than the fredric march version , but this does not make it any less effective . in keeping with the tradition of the 1930 's version , tracy 's hyde begins as a somewhat more brutish-looking man who bears relatively little resemblance to the actor , but gets increasingly hideous as the film progresses ; as his deeds get worse and worse , this mr. hyde becomes exactly what he 's meant to be : a monster , both in character and appearance . true , mr. hyde may not be a typical role for actor spencer tracy , but his excellent performance shows that he is far from miscast . also , this version follows the basic story format as well , which qualifies it as a good adaptation of the original story . this dvd is an excellent buy , and any purchaser will definitely get more bang for his or her buck !