a wonderful , immensely entertaining film too often , hollywood directors seem to forget that cinematic success comes in the form of great characters . doc hollywood , though , is one of those films that proves the rule . this movie is chock full of great characters , even in some of the smallest of roles - and it 's not just the people , for the small town in which the story takes place is quite a character unto itself . the town of grady is sort of an updated version of mayberry - idyllic , of course , but nonetheless charming and evocative . it 's the kind of place you can only find in the south . of course , dr. ben stone ( michael j . fox ) has blinders on when he first arrives . having just left the hustle and bustle ( and blood ) of a large d.c. hospital , he 's on his way to la la land in hopes of snagging a cushy job in the lucrative practice of cosmetic surgery . on his cross-country drive , he gets as far as south carolina before fate steps in , leaving stone temporarily stuck in the small town of grady with a banged-up sports car and a judge 's sentence of thirty-two hours of community medical service . grady is in great need of a new doctor to replace the aging dr. hogue ( barnard hughes ) , and everyone in town ( well , almost everyone ) - from the mayor ( david ogden stiers ) to the official welcoming committee of ladies and on down to the local farmers - makes no bones about their hopes of enticing him to stay . even the glory of the annual squash festival ca n't do much to equal the scales , though , as california promises fortune and excitement , while a practice in grady promises only a barely decent salary and quiet , country living . predictably , though , stone finds love - or at least the prospect for love - with the local ambulance driver . he and lou ( julie warner ) , a single mother and aspiring law student , engage in a lot of mutual flirtation , but she quickly becomes something much more than a mere conquest for stone , which makes his decision whether to stay in grady or snatch the gold ring in california much more difficult than he ever would have thought . with the help of a fantastic cast , grady quickly begins to feel a lot like home for the viewer . with just a little interaction here and there , you really come to know a vast number of people - the mayor , the local mechanic , the judge , old doc hogue , the implacable nurse packer , the illiterate family who depends on the doc to read them the family letters they receive , and the list just goes on . two of the faces are particularly recognizable : woody harrelson plays lou 's would-be suitor , and bridget fonda ( whom i have long adored , despite the fact that she 's a fonda ) plays the mayor 's daughter , a young lady who longs for the bright lights of a big city . david ogden stiers , i have to say , is just wonderful as the mayor ; he 's the exact antithesis of the bostonian intellectual he played for so many years on m*a*s*h. i ca n't say that all of these actors and actresses sounded all that southern , but it 's not their fault that they were n't lucky enough to be born here in the south . you might be thinking this sounds like just another story about a city slicker won over by the charms of small-town living . doc hollywood could easily have been just another boring version of an old story , but this film has a special quality that turns it into so much more than a predictable comedy . thanks to nuanced directing , rich storytelling , and wonderful acting , more than a few of these characters have a remarkable depth that you pick up on very quickly . grady is n't just a town ; it 's a way of life , with a genuineness you do n't often find in any kind of film . stone 's ultimate decision does not come down to anything as simple as romance vs. money . certainly , his feelings for lou are deep and genuine , but the town of grady and all of her citizens sing a siren song of love that stone hears , as well . as for that ending , it does n't play out exactly in the manner you might expect , and that 's just one more reason to love this wonderful movie