probably one of sandler 's most unappreciated yes , i am an adam sandler fan , but i 'm not obsessed about him as some of his other fans are . i appreciate his humor , do n't ask me why but i find him funny . most critics batter him for childish antics , bathroom humor , violent slapstick , and immaturity . true , he can childish and immature in his humor , but he is just lovable enough to get away with it . anyway , the people i know like to laugh at the one-liners and antics of billy madison , happy gilmore , and the waterboy . but not a lot people talk about big daddy as much , and that 's too bad . meet sonny ( sandler ) , a 32-year-old law school grad on the fast track to nowhere : rather than take a high-paying job in a high-powered new york city firm , sonny works one night a week in a tollbooth and hangs out with the deli delivery guy ( rob schneider ) . now meet julian ( cole and dylan sprouse ) , a cute five-year-old who appears on sonny 's doorstep with a note from his mom claiming he 's the illegitimate son of sonny 's best law-school buddy kevin ( jon stewart ) , who 's just left for china . no problem , thinks sonny : a son will get his life on track and help him win back his wayward girlfriend ( kristy swanson ) . but when a compromising situation arises and sonny 's girlfriend dumps him , sonny gets desperate and has social services look for a family that can take julian . instead of letting julian end up in an orphanage he volenteers to look after him , giving the kid options instead of orders , letting him dress however he likes , bathe when he wants and eat what he likes , but soon he realizes that he needs to set boundries for the kid in order for him to excell school . sonny starts to bond with the kid . but after ignoring calls from social services , sonny is taken to court for fraudulently hold julian under his biological father 's name . i think this is one of sandler 's best , not only because he 's downplaying his humor impulse to stutter like bobby boucher , get violent like happy gilmore , or act childish like billy madison . but because he seems to have matured a bit as an actor and as a person . his humor is dry , but funny . rob schnider is hilarious as nazo the delivery guy , and steve buscemi is uproarious as the homeless guy . adam has really come a far way since billy madison , he 's a hell of a lot more calmer , and a little bit more likable to the non-sandler-fan community . yes there is some bodily humor here , but it 's marginal and it does n't come from adam , which is good because it would n't wear well on a man in his mid-30s as it would on a little kid . all in all , if you 're not a sandler-fan , you 're better off not watching his earlier stuff first , because he can get carried away with the childish humor , so start off slow and watch big daddy , the wedding singer , or 50 first dates .