we do n't see things as they are , we see them as we are when viewing the same problems , what makes one person call for violence and another person call for understanding ? there are probably many reasons . the title to this review is an anais nin quote that i think suggests part of the answer . branford marsalis comments about sting 's music : the music is a tremendous social statement . musicians are always social critics . and that 's the biggest problem with pop music is that they do n't have any more social critics . they do n't have enough people with the intelligence or the balls to stand up and see the world for what it is and say `` this s $ ! t is out . '' bring on the night is a movie about the launching of the dream of the blue turtles album and the creation of an interracial band . the songs on the album are protest songs , protesting cold war propoganda , nuclear waste , possessive love , pride that refuses to forgive , and many other things . for example , `` if you love somebody set them free '' is a response to his earlier `` every breath you take '' . sting 's intent was to be disarming , to disarm through the discussion and publication of ideas . he took a stand by stating his positions . he did not choose to be silent or abandon the issues he cared about . in his mind , love is not hidden and not silent . love does n't say , `` i care about this issue , but do n't tell anyone what i think . '' good protest songs are made to be sung . one world is enough for all of us . love is the seventh wave . i spent too many years at war with myself . doctor has told me , it 's no good for my health . sting spends time writing a song to his ex , where he laid out both his admission of guilt and an olive branch for reconciliation : if i built this fortress around your heart , encircled you in trenches and barbed wire , then let me build a bridge , for i can not fill the chasm , and let me set the battlements on fire . this movie is the most fluid rock band film i 've seen , and both the music and interviews discuss substantive issues . if you are a fan of acapella or minimal accompaniment , watch the film to hear the amazing , open versions of both roxanne and message in a bottle . please comment , express feedback , or suggest related works