biting chayefsky satire accomplished director sidney lumet directs a insightful and prophetic satire from the expansive mind of paddy chayefsky critiquing the business of network television production . cca corporation frontman frank hackett played by robert duvall has taken over ubs network with the idea of finally turning it + into a profitable situation . lagging in ratings behind the big three , duvall focuses on the news division headed by max schumacher played by the aged but excellent william holden . duvall 's plan calls for the firing of long time news anchor howard beale played superbly in oscar winning fashion by peter finch . a disconsolate finch announces on air that in one weeks time , he will blow his head off during his newscast . his ratings take an immediate bump which comes to the attention of intensely obsessed tv generation programing vice president diana christiansen played by faye dunaway . dunaway encourages holden to keep finch on the air , against his better judgement but the ratings hike eventually flattens out . as finch 's time in gradually coming to an end , he has a bedroom epiphany which inspires him to come on the air after walking the rainy streets in his pajamas . in a heartfelt spew with wild gesticulations he calls for those watching who are frustrated with their existence , to open their windows and yell that they 're mad as hell and not gon na take it anymore . his rant strikes home and before long he is a media darling with the number one rated show . this opens the door for dunaway to fill her programing schedule with wild and revolutionary shows which threaten to drive ubs to the top of the network heap . as profits soar , corporate head arthur jensen played by supremely talented ned beatty is pleased . however finch goes too far with his angry prophet routine speaking out against corporate business practices . he receives an angry rebuke in a brilliant soliloquy by beatty , who decides that due to a ratings drop that finch must be silenced . a combination of lumet 's top notch direction , a cleverly scripted screenplay and a series of superior acting performances make `` network '' an all time cinematic classic