ah , to be twentysomething in seattle in the early 1990s ! this film genuinely surprised me when i first saw it in theaters in 1992 . for me , bridget fonda was the main draw at the time , as she received top billing and was on the movie posters with matt dillion . it felt like a bait and switch , because the film focuses more on campbell scott and kyra sedgwick 's relationship , even though they are n't featured on the poster . that 's no biggie , because i enjoyed their storyline much more than bridget and matt 's ... but i bet campbell and kyra were n't happy to be excluded on the poster/dvd cover . this film has it all ... great music suitable to the period ( grunge/alternative ) , fantastic use of place ( seattle in a starring role ) , interesting and quirky characters , and true to life portrayal of young people in their twenties negotiating through life as they find their true passions . i especially loved campbell scott 's performance and he is the true star of this film . his job is working on creating a `` super train '' to get seattlites out of their cars and onboard for their commute , because he believes that `` if you give them great coffee and great music , they 'll ride . '' his girlfriend , played by kyra sedgwick , has her pulse on the masses , by telling him , `` i still love my car , though . '' she 's an environmentalist who drives an old gass guzzling clunker of an automobile , which campbell pokes fun at after a lunch date . its a joy to watch their relationship grow from initial doubts to lover games about how soon after a date one should call to other challenges that crop up . i especially love the scene when linda ( sedgwick ) peruses steve 's ( campbell scott ) record albums and gets nostalgic about her college days . that scene epitomizes the exciting `` getting to know you '' stage of dating and rings absolutely true . the choice of music in that scene , and throughout the entire movie really enhances the scenes overall . probably the only thing i did n't like about the film , which is just a tiny critique , was janet 's ( fonda ) almost groupie-like infatuation with cliff ( dillon ) , who did n't seem all that interested in her ( until she moves on with her life ) . they are a mismatched pair if there ever was one ... janet with her ambitions for grad school to pursue architecture , and cliff the stereotypical gen x slacker working menial jobs to support his rock band career that probably would n't have gone anywhere . janet should have hooked up with the plastic surgeon who does n't know how to have fun ! this dvd would be made even better with a director 's commentary track . cameron crowe could divulge a lot of interesting information and insite jokes that the average filmwatcher might not catch ( like when the mime says , `` wooo woooo woooo '' in response to a guy who says he works for boeing , or when a reporter asks cliff what the song `` touch me , i 'm dick '' is about -- which is an inside joke on the actual song `` touch me , i 'm sick '' ) . this film is so ingrained into the grunge culture of seattle of the early 1990s , that future audiences could use a lot of background info a director 's commentary would provide . at any rate , this film is a joy to watch , and cheaply priced that it 's worth having in one 's collection . and buy the soundtrack while you 're at it