`` she is led by love . the world moves for love . it kneels before it in awe . '' alright , im sure you already know what its about , if not , then just read above , because im here , trying to tell you why you should watch it . i know , ill get this out of the way fast . just watch this movie for what it is , not what you want it to be ! people argue that its not scary , or that the twist ending was horrible . its not a horror movie , its not suposed to scare you . its a love story . and listen to this : the twist ending ? , its not suposed to be a surprise , its suposed form this whole movie , its suposed to define who these characters are , and what they are trying to do . this is a story of love , and of hope and innocence . i just dont see how people who are fans of shyamalans other movies can say `` i hated the ending , very predictable '' because , fans , you know what shyamalan does , you know from seeing signs that hes a deep writer , that he gives much more meaning than what you think its going to be . so please , if the only thing thats holding you back from seeing this is the critics , or your friends , then see it anyway . why would you let other peoples opinions rule what you like , or dont like ? sure , many didnt like it , some didnt even understand it , but that doesnt mean you wont like it . you just have to try it out . if you havent had the end ruined for you , thats even better , because you still have this whole movie to look forward to , and if you dont enjoy it , than fine , but atleast you can say yourself that you didnt like it . i know too many people who havent seen it because it got bad reviews . if you enjoy a good love story , or even an art-sy type of suspence movie , then im sure you will enjoy it . but its not for everyone . im sure , if you get bored easily , or if you dont have an imagination ( this is a must have for any shyamalan film ) and then theres the soundtrack , which deserves 5 stars all by itself because its so magical . shyamalan is one of the few who knows how to use music for film , who can make the music be a character in the movie . but before i leave , trust me , dont watch this thinking its a horror movie , because its not . thats the worst mistake you could make aboiut this film