bizarre entertainment the greatest crime you can commit whilst watching a david lynch film is to not watch it in one-sitting ; a reason as to why mr. lynch did not condone the insertion of chapter breaks in the original 'mulholland drive ' dvd & # 8212 ; it happens to be the incentive for the viewer to sit through the whole film in unremitting concentration , a sort of meditation . it would also explain his infatuation with 'transcendental meditation ' , which he claims to have been practicing for a number of years , and his desire to instill that peace into his cult following . so , if by any chance you want to unravel this smorgasbord of haunting sexuality , bloody violence , and the mystical bizarreness which is 'lost highway ' then it is wise to stray away from the conviction of a linear plot . it is much more lucrative to compare the chief theme of each his films rather than trying to put together the scattered images of one film & # 8212 ; let & # 8217 ; s say , as an example , the 'mystery man ' ( played by robert blake in this particular film ) and the 'cowboy ' from 'mulholland drive ' ; you can draw the correspondence at once by comparing their facial elements : mainly the shaved eyebrows . therewith , one can surmise what lynch tried to personify by those two characters & # 8230 ; a singularly obscure despot & # 8212 ; evil & # 8212 ; like the devil , and also the gateway into the supernatural . indeed , in a recent interview , director lynch confessed that lost highway and twin peaks take place in the same world & # 8212 ; which is more than enough evidence for us to navigate all his films since 1977 & # 8217 ; s 'eraserhead ' and search for cohesion on the whole rather than through one individual film . all this aside , 'lost highway ' is certainly a worthy experience ; it is singularly intriguing , interspersed with bizarre sexual liaisons and a chilling soundtrack & # 8212 ; a mix of hard-edged techno-industrial , slightly spooky jazz , and orchestral compositions from angelo badalamenti . patricia arquette & bill pullman pull off memorable performances as the husband and wife whose marriage is on the rocks , balthazar getty is thoroughly convincing as the 'reincarnation ' of fred madison ( bill pullman & # 8217 ; s character in the story ) and robert loggia playing the sinister mob boss with insidious perversions . 'lost highway ' may at times frustrate you with its non-linear narrative or it just might not be on-par with your taste , yet you don & # 8217 ; t have to be genius to figure out that during our brief span of consciousness david lynch certainly knows how to screw our nerves .