excellent yet realistically frightening . this story of a jewish woman in search of her father ( separated from him as a child in 1927 russia ) , in a time when the world was on the verge of war , is heartbreaking and very real . it is low key but i was riveted . you can feel the underlying tension of knowing , and the subtle buildup of the inevitable invasion of paris . it chilled me to the bone in one part to hear the sounds of the germans marching into the city . the movie , considered a sleeper , shows the frightening reality of what it was like to be there at that time in our history and potentially in danger if you were jewish , a gypsy , homosexual , etc . the acting was superb . john turturro ( dante ) , brilliantly plays an italian arrogant , selfish , self-centered , manipulative opera singer who tries with no success to ingratiate himself romantically into suzie 's life ( christina ricci , the heroine of the film ) . her performance was also excellent . the look on her face throughout the film shows her haunted , yet with a quiet strength in her determination to eventually reconnect with her father . her rejection of dante causes her friend and dante 's ex-lover lola ( played brilliantly by cate blanchett who 's russian accent was excellent ) to leave paris and go to america because her life was in danger . in the interim suzie has fallen for cesar , a gypsy horseman played by johnny depp , yet another excellent performance . some people are comparing this gypsy role with the one he played in chocolat . there is no similarity except for him being softspoken and unassuming . definitely not a `` character reprisal '' . not depp 's style . the only character he 's reprising is his pirate , jack sparrow which by now the whole world is aware of . the only thing i did n't like about this movie was the ending . the second it ended , it was like i was thrown into shock . not one for abrupt endings unless the film warrants it . this one did not . but do n't let it stop you from seeing this movie . really holds your attention . i 'm so glad i bought it .