walk softly , carry a big stick , and have johnny knoxville as backup ex-special forces chris vaughn ( da rock ) returns to his hometown of kitsap county , washington after 8 years in the soldiering business . he intends to fulfill his dream of working at the town sawmill , but finds that it has gone out of business . in fact , things have changed for the worse in kitsap county and home is n't home anymore . there 's now a nasty element in the former little town and chris 's old friend jay hamilton ( neal mcdonough ) seems to be in the thick of things , with his thriving casino and burgeoning drug empire . it does n't take long for chris to nose out the corruption and soon , chris and jay are at vicious odds with each other . after chris is beaten and tortured and his young nephew falls prey to crystal meth , chris runs for and becomes the local sheriff . he then tries to set things right with his town , waging his own personal battle against crime , armed only with a length of cedar and the loony but dependable help of his buddy ray ( johnny knoxville ) . this film is a distant cousin of the first walking tall movie back in 1973 , which told the more or less true story of sheriff buford pusser . the premise is the same , that of a man who has had enough of vice and crookedness infesting his town and decides to do something about it - to wit , getting elected sheriff . but this movie version has the rock , filmdom 's newest big action star , and is therefore invested with rock-like sensibilities . walking tall ( 2004 ) is more action-oriented , with the action scenes more slick and kinetic . it does n't take itself as serious as the original ; it is , in fact , laden with a healthy dose of rowdy humor , much of it being contributed by wildman johnny knoxville . at a running time of one hour and 27 minutes , director kevin bray does n't try to embroil the viewer into too much set-up , but instead gets right to the nitty-gritty , quickly delivering what the fans crave - the rock 's physicality and charisma . yes , the rock is an action star . he 'll never do shakespeare or go on stage . but , in his specific genre , he shines . and he does have enough thespian in him to capably and convincingly play his formulaic silent but kick-ass roles . what sets him apart from other would-be stars such as van damme and seagal is that the rock is imbued with a self-deprecating , wink-of-an-eye ( arch of an eyebrow ? ) quality that enables viewers to like him and identify with him . the rest of the cast , with two exceptions , are mediocre and bland , but , at least , they do n't hurt the film . the intense neal mcdonough stands out as he invests his villain with frozen , blue-eyed menace and cold-blooded venom . a very good and formidable villain indeed . johnny knoxville is just plain fun to watch as he plays his ray templeton with unpredictable wackiness . the laugh he uses ( i do n't know if that 's his real laugh ) when he and chris are watching television is just plain out infectious . basically , this little actioner , the rock 's follow up to the superior the rundown , does n't have anything new to say . it is what it is : a short , enjoyable movie that 's sure to give the audience a good time . it certainly beats son of themask , or a fork in the eye . it gets 3 and a half stars from me .