deep focus i 've taught this film in colleges for thirty-plus years . even back at the earliest screenings , traditional-aged freshmen had trouble with it ( a ) because it was in b & w , and ( b ) because the dimensional characters did n't telegraph plot advancement but instead used irony , wit , or assumptions that would later be proven wrong by subsequent events . the first of these objections stunned me when they could n't appreciate gene tierney descending the stairs to seduce `` larry '' in a gown relegated to grays . the second objection ( young auduence confusion ) just made me sad about the impact of television ... but you already know that story . as with hollywood 's the picture of dorian gray , released in during the same general period , i personally appreciate the `` epic scope '' of the narrative , enhanced by remarkable set direction detail . and i appreciate even more the depth-of-focus photography in both of these films , which enriches viewing by sharp images at several planes of action within the frame . it 's a story well-told at the visual level . i 've read complaints about tyrone power 's `` dated '' acting in this performance , nightmare alley , etc . but again , i suspect this is from a generation more comfortable with mtv editing than with theatre as an entertainment criterion . power is given a series of difficult monologues to recite about uncinematic spiritual/ philosophical themes , and he pulls each off brilliantly . as with olivier 's opening scene in richard iii , it 's interesting to watch how these monologues have been directed to use a pacing movement of the actor within the frame as a `` paragraphing '' punctuation . the lengthy , uninterrupted takes and consequent fluidity of camera movement within these shots not only enhances the impact of the monologues but also makes sly commentary on characters/ themes as continuous camera includes other characters in medium close-ups . herbert marshall 's maugham is interesting and underplayed almost as masterfully as cedrick hardwicke 's performance of `` goodness personified '' in rope . the close-ups of `` maugham 's '' eyes to communicate ironic plot points may seem obtrusive , but they 're true to maugham 's voice in the novel . further , they emphasize the ill-advised decision to omit this narrator 's perspective in murray 's hapless remake . that later film fails in no small part because the female characters are virtually indistinguishable visually , and because the studio ( which only made the film to entice murray to make ghostbusters ii ) invested no interest in producing a good movie script . pity , since murray could have done okay . two less successful scenes in the 40s version are the `` baby ! '' hospital melodrama and the ashram jehovah sequences ( not including the remarkably visual spiritual moment in the mountains ) . but the supporting cast remains superb throughout -- especially the bracing comedy of webb and lancaster , and the moving subtlety of john payne and lucille watson . tierney 's richest moments are linked to the plot : `` that 's all right , larry . it might be less than a year '' ; the wedding announcement over the phone ; the camera-narrated scene where isabel `` seduces '' larry 's fiancee ; and , of course , the climax with larry at the end . and , by the way , she 's as gorgeous as tyrone power ! how much more value can one expect from an entertainment that succeeds so well with complex , mature themes of spiritual redemption in a society of capitalist myopia ?