must have for fans of bible stories on dvd ! save $ $ $ while building your library ! i bought all of these 6 dvds separately because i did not know that they came as a set , at a better price ! i paid about $ 15 each , about $ 90 total , and i do not regret owning them all , but i would have jumped on this set if i had known about it ! most of these dvds are very interesting and faithful to scripture . samson & delilah is the weakest of these 6 dvds , as it spends too much time on non-scriptural characters . abraham covers many scenes of the 40 year wandering rarely seen on dvd . jacob is pretty close to scripture . joseph is great , but it spends a bit too much time rewriting the narration to allow for ben kingsley 's potiphar role to expand . i have not yet watched david , but i look forward to leonard nimoy 's appearance in the film . most of these films are 3 hours long , presumably they were mostly all short mini-series when they originally ran on tv . i think only jacob is about 90 minutes , of the 6 dvds in this set . you can read about each dvd as they are all sold separately on amazon.com . all of these 6 dvds have major tv network , made-for-tv quality , and i am quite surprised and pleased that these movies are so good . i do not know of any better series of bible stories on dvd . there is another box set available , the bible series box set , which has 3 other dvds of this series of movies . jeremiah is my favorite of all 9 movies . esther is great , and perhaps the most faithful to scriptural accuracy and chronology of all 9 movies . solomon is the only 3 hour dvd in this smaller box set . there is a genesis in this box set , but it is not a dramatized movie , just a narration of the book of genesis , while modern day nomads are shown going about their daily routine . genesis is a disappointment and very unlike the other 9 movies , so much so that it does n't even seem to be part of the same production series . bottom line : i highly recommend that anybody buy both of these box sets , and they will save about 50 % over buying each dvd separately ! praise the lord