`` be nice.. until it 's time to not be nice . '' ( `` road house : '' special edition ) it 's been said before ( and over and over in all the reviews here , so i wo n't bore you with the details why it 's been said ) but i 'll say it again : `` roadhouse '' is a great bad movie ! i do find it funny that this one has earned that type of fond recollection by so many and turned into a cult hit of sorts because of it ; while there are literally tons of these type of movies that littered the action/adventure landscape throughout the 80s and early 90s . hardly any of them are even remembered much less revered to the extent `` roadhouse '' is . i guess it 's just one of those things . maybe its because the movie has ( at the time ) bigger stars , a bigger budget and a larger abundance of gratuitous t & a than most theatrically released action flicks that bare a general resemblance to it ( of course , you could find plenty of this type of thing lining the walls of your local blockbuster , but even though they supply the action and nudity , they do n't often supply the big stars and big budgets ) . maybe it was just a matter of right place , right time , right amount of exposure , etc . who knows ; but whatever the reason , i 'm glad enough this film has endured . this special edition does its legacy as a winking-joke-unto-itself proud ( swayze 's character is known as `` the best bouncer in the business . '' where was the annual bouncer convention of '89 held and how is the winner of that title determined ? ) . the best reason to pick this up instead of the previous , bare-bones dvd transfer is the commentary tracks . the first is by the film 's director , rowdy herrington , which is actually rather informative considering the source material being examined . but the real treat is the other commentary track by director and professional fanboy kevin smith and his production partner scott mossier . not only is it a great commentary , but the very idea that the producers of this dvd saw it appropriate to include a commentary from someone who has nothing to do with making this movie shows that all involved are in on the joke . they should have just gone the full nine and held contest to find the ultimate , die hard `` roadhouse '' fan and let him/her do the commentary . and i 'd be willing to bet , somewhere , quentin tarrentino is pissed he did n't get a call ( he loves contributing his two cents to cult films that he has nothing to do with other than being either a huge fan or hating the movie 's guts - either way , always an entertaining commentator ) . now if only studio execs would get off their butts and release perhaps the only junk-action movie more loved and clamored for than this one : `` stone cold . '' ( it feels like that is the only movie ever made that has not made it to dvd , yet everyone seems to want it to be released , so what gives ? ! since when are n't studios egger to cash in ? ? ? ) give us a `` stone cold '' special edition and slap it in a two-pack with this classic and you 'll have all the craptacular entertainment this side of the old school steven seagal flicks you 'll ever need .