trouble aplenty in a parallel world here we have another parody of the giant robot anime genre ( mostly making fun of evangelion ) . the basic plot is that a teenage guy sees giant city-smashing robots where no one else does , a mad scientist is convinced that this is evidence of a parallel universe , and the mad scientist sends the guy ( along with the mad scientist 's daughter ) to the parallel universe where ( surprise ) the guy gets to pilot the giant robots . this series does n't take itself too seriously , or try to get into the deeper questions of the meaning of life or anything , but instead tries to tell a simple adventure story ( in the format of the typical teen-age guy gets chased around by every girl in sight ) of a boy and his giant mecha . the show is only 13 episodes long , but this length suits it well , as to make the series go on longer would just reduce half of the show to filler . the 13 episode format keeps things tight . as far as pioneer animation shows go , this is one of the better ones ( my favorite still being battle athletes victory ) . the animation and character designs are good , and the cgi and traditional animation melds well ( for the most part ) . the action sequences are n't really mind-blowing ( except perhaps for some of the early ones in the show { like the one where our protagonist jumps into a fallen mecha and saves its pilot by destroying the enemy attacking her } ) . the music is n't too bad , except for when it 's not there ( maybe it 's supposed to be dramatic or atmospheric , but a few times i found myself getting bored ) . the characters are all pretty likable ( and especially the alternate mitsaki , one of the nicest , cutest , sweetest , most attractive girls in all of anime ) , and some of the dialog and situations are pretty funny ( although on the whole i 'd say that the comedy was largely hit-and-miss ) . if you 're a fan of mecha , and particularly mecha comedies , you should probably give this one a rent at the least . if you like its style it 's probably worth a purchase .