loose cannon the documentary was really , really good . they left some stuff out of it , of course , but you know why they did so it sort of makes sense . one thing i did not remember was the prodigious mullet brian sported back in the day . man , i think that thing was more impressive than jagr 's cup-winning mullet of the early-90s ! i do n't know that i learned anything new from the documentary , but seeing his kids and his sisters talk about him was amazing . also , stone cold talking about the hollywood blonds tag team was great fun . they really played up the flyin ' brian stuff as being ahead of it 's time ( which it was ) and the loose cannon character that had everyone guessing . funny thing is that the whole loose cannon thing was n't really long-lasting if you think about it . the gimmick was the talk of all three companies at the time but it really only lasted the summer before his humvee accident brought any momentum he had to a standstill . the accident was glossed over -- he was loaded on painkeelers and told of seeing his ex-girlfriend 's face in his rearview mirror when he crashed -- but the fact that it totally derailed his character was not . he knew that he could have been the biggest thing going and that he had blown the whole deal and it depressed the heck out of him . anyhoo , the official coroner 's report was that he had a heart attack ; just as his dad had at a young age . of course , the fact that the juice and the vikes and a crazy lifestyle put take a toll on the heart was glossed over . i mean , the wwe is not going to ever admit that the lifestyle of a ( ahem ) `` sports entertainer '' is one that is insane because no one can prove whether the job makes you crazy or if that crazy people are attracted to the job . it 's the whole chicken-or-the-egg argument on a human scale . the truth is that he was an overachiever who liked to prove people wrong and when his body failed him , he became depressed and quickly descended into a spiral that ultimately did him in . best parts were reliving the hollywood blonds stuff . i remember watching it back in the day and knowing that he and steve were going to be huge stars . steve even talks about how the team got over really quickly and that the plug was pulled by a booker who was worried about protecting his spot in wcw . they never name the booker but i am 90 % sure that it was ric flair back then who headed the booking committee . i am also 80 % sure that arn was on the committee too . they must have felt threatened by the flare for the old skit that set up a 2 out of 3 falls match for a tbs special in ( i am guessing ) 1992 or 1993 . great stuff though ; and brian came up with the whole gimmick . they were so hilarious together . another great part was jim ross talking about how he believed that he had become a father-figure to brian in the wwf . that was sad stuff . jr really had a hard time trying to help brian but pillman only saw the fact that jr order him to be drug tested as a huge betrayal . overall , i am going with 4 crutches out of 5 . i have n't watched any of the matches as yet but i am less interested in that kind of thing than i am the documentaries .