between `` heaven '' and hell the brilliant director of `` run lola run '' and `` the princess and the warrior '' , tom tykwer , has directed another visually stunning , thought provoking and mystical film exploring the relationship of a man and a woman from different backgrounds who find each other and realize that a strong and potent connection exists between the two of them . as in `` the princess and the warrior , '' tykwer combines the real and the surreal to dazzling effect . the main characters , whose names are `` phillipa '' and `` fillipo '' represent opposite or opposing forces who finally become merged into one . `` phillipa '' the female character , circumvents and subverts society 's ineffectual system of laws by taking the law into her own hands , and plans to kill a drug dealer who is in cahoots with the the police . `` fillipo '' , the male character , is in direct contradistinction to phillipa in that he is a member of the police system that phillipa feels has failed her , her husband , and her students ( she is a teacher ) . after she is captured , the two find a powerful spiritual connection that transforms and bonds them forever . the roles that were established for the characters blur as fillipo breaks the laws his job symbolizes and helps phillipa escape ; and phillipa , racked with guilt over the the inncoent deaths at her hands , is ready to submit to the very same laws that failed her and set all the events in motion . the film , as it progresses , reconciles these opposing forces , and the characters ' identities and ideals literally ( they begin to look alike ) and symbollically ( they begin to both believe that there is no real justice in the world ) merge into one . the film , in addition , grows more surreal as it progresses and the bond between the two is cemented both physically and spiritually . some critics have expressed that the ending is disappointing in the way it leaves the moral aspects of the film unresolved ( phillipa escapes punishment for her crimes ) . i think they have missed the point in that the main focus of the film , as in most of tykwer 's films , is on the mystical connection of the characters . the last scene , a breathtaking piece of cinema , establishes this connection in a surreal way . phillipa herself admits that she deserves punishment for her crimes , but in a world that makes no sense , where justice and law rarely live up to their ideals , their last escape makes perfect sense