realistic , yet hopeless war story . based upon director and writer oliver stone 's own experiences in vietnam , platoon was the first major motion picture about that war directed by a veteran from that conflict . the movie revolves around a young american soldier , pvt . chris taylor ( a young charlie sheen ) and the platoon he lives and fights with during his tour of duty . the battle sequences are very gritty , graphic , and realistic . taylor serves under the direct leadership of sgt . elias grodin ( willem dafoe ) , but both men are under the command of staff sgt . bob barnes ( tom berenger ) . grodin and barnes have two completely different views of leadership and opposing worldviews . grodin represents everything that is good and noble and worth fighting for in the conflict , while barnes represents all the evil and ugliness of the war . at its core then , platoon is a movie about the internal war for one soldier 's soul between good and evil . though stone based the film upon his own experiences , there are scenes that have been embellished and the view stone presents is only one view of the war -- see the film we were soldiers for the opposite view as presented by stone in platoon . despite the negative outlook upon life , the military , and the vietnam war , platoon is probably oliver stone 's best movie to date . stone 's direction of the film is brilliant from the two-week boot camp the actors endured before principal filming , to the fine details such as the color of the wrapping paper on the cigarettes , to filming in sequence , to recognizing the talent of johnny depp , stone illustrated in platoon was that he was a great director and one to be reckoned with . the film contains fine performances : tom berenger , willem dafoe , charlie sheen , forest whitaker , francesco quinn , john c. mcginley , and johnny depp all give powerful portrayals that ground the movie in humanity , despite the deep metaphysical connotations . platoon won the 1986 oscar for best picture , stone won the best director oscar , and also received a nomination for best original screenplay . i was surprised and found that i enjoyed platoon , though there were several parts of the film that i found myself aghast . i 've never been in battle myself , but i do know that war is hell . nevertheless , i can not bring myself to agree with the film 's negative worldview and ultimately the loss of one 's soul to evil . despite this , there are many positive things within the movie . this is a movie that any film buff should see and people who enjoy war movies might enjoy it as well ( though they might prefer something more hopeful such as saving privater ryan or we were soldiers )