gil gerard is one fine slab of man ! ok , now that i got your attention ... this is a great trip down memory lane for any of you star wars nuts that grew up in the late 70s/early 80s . remembering how things were back in 1979 , i can see how this show managed to captivate me . no internet , no video games , no cable , vhs , dvd ... not a single luxury . like robinson crusoe , as primitive as can be . we had nothing else . even though as an eight year old , i knew this was kinda lame , it was an absolute godsend when there was only one tv in the house with a total of four channels . anyhow , stream of consciouness bullet list : - first season is great cheese and hot chicks , second season is horrid . - this is what star trek would have been if roddenberry had come around ten years later . - a gil gerard ( circa 1979 ) versus william shatner ( circa 1969 ) stagefight would probably put me into a coma due to it 's mind-blowing awesomeness . - ahead of even the great princess leia and the not-quite-as-great cassiopia , colonel deering and princess amadala are the two women who made me realize i was down with the ladies , if you catch my very blatant drift . nothing surpirsing here , but erin gray was my first crush . - twiki is not nearly as annoying as some stick-in-the-mud types would have you believe . his cheeseball comic relief works perfectly with gil 's cheeseball chest carpet and martial arts ability . - every scene involving `` dancing from the future '' or previously referenced martial arts is twenty times more entertaining that anything in the history of `` reality tv '' . - hawk is not an interesting character , he is just the least crappy thing in a completely crappy second season . - there are no extras at all , pretty dissapointing given the price point and the target audience of sci-fi geeks who thrive on that kinda stuff in conclusion : i miss the days when sci-fi did n't have to beat you over the head and then strangle you with nothing but dread and darkness and doom . buck rogers takes place in post-apocolyptic , nuclear wasteland , mutants living in the desert , planet earth ... and it 's still a hundred times less depressing than any of the cookie cutter sci-fi series plopped out in the last ten years . of course , we are a much more critical society nowadays ... plumped up on years of cable networks , easily accessible vhs/dvd movies and other competitors for our time . long gone are the days of shows like this . shows where everybody involved , audience included , knew it was escapist/fantasy crap but just went along and had fun with it . gil gerard is an absolute joy to watch just because you always knew he was in on the joke ( at least during the first season ) . everybody takes themselves too seriously nowadays , especially sci-fi . the new battlestar series is so painfully self-aware it 's basically a soap-opera that happens to be in space . anyhoo ... if are a male sci-fi fan who was between the ages of let 's say ... 6 to 12 ... when this series made it 's run , go out and buy it . for better or worse , buck rogers took me back to the late 70s much more effectively than star wars or battlestar . 4/5 only due to the complete lack of extra