jimmy cagney returns ! the only e. l. doctorow book i ever read was `` ragtime , '' and i read it because i enjoyed milos foreman 's film version . i was n't impressed with the novel . the author 's writing style was excruciating -- on purpose or unintentional , i do n't know -- in a way that reminds one of theodore dreiser . moreover , i continually found myself sighing heavily over the book 's anachronisms . sorry , but the early twentieth century was not the 1960s ! quit trying to rewrite history ! doctorow did do a few things right , however . his characters , at least a few of them , were interesting . too , i liked how he integrated their tales with real life historical figures and events . so when i recently learned that foreman 's version of the book came out on dvd , i decided to rewatch the film . the director , who made `` one flew over the cuckoo 's nest '' in 1975 , went on to lens several other memorable films , including `` amadeus , '' `` the people vs. larry flynt , '' and `` man on the moon . '' if you 're familiar with any of these movies , it 's obvious milos foreman likes using his camera to document kooky characters . `` ragtime '' provides him with plenty of opportunities to examine oddball personalities engaging in often oddball behavior . those crazy gilded age americans ! several major and minor stories wend their way through `` ragtime . '' we follow a well to do new york family -- consisting of `` father '' ( james olson ) , `` mother '' ( mary steenburgen ) , and mother 's `` younger brother '' ( brad dourif ) -- that seems to represent the wasp majority . the family becomes embroiled in a pregnancy scandal involving a black woman named sarah ( debbie allen ) and her lover coalhouse walker jr. ( howard e. rollins jr. ) . while walker attempts to ingratiate himself with our wasp family in an effort to win over sarah , he becomes involved in a minor scandal when a group of firemen led by willie conklin ( kenneth mcmillan ) vandalizes his automobile . other threads focus on a poor jewish artist named tateh ( mandy patinkin ) , whose invention of a nifty little gimcrack called `` picture books '' leads to a career as one of hollywood 's first film directors . a notorious murder case also takes center stage from time to time . when renowned architect stanford white ( norman mailer ) starts fooling around with airheaded evelyn nesbit ( elizabeth mcgovern ) , her jealous lover harry k. thaw ( robert joy ) pops a couple of caps in white 's noggin -- in full view of hundreds of witnesses . as you can see , `` ragtime '' covers an enormous amount of material . remarkably , the movie works quite well . the first part spends all of its time establishing the story lines and fleshing out the characters . the second part focuses largely on coalhouse walker 's failures to achieve justice for the wrongs done to him . he eventually turns into a terrorist who , with the help of a few friends , bombs several firehouses around town . then he seizes a library in new york city , wires it with explosives , and threatens to blow the place sky high if he does n't receive a new car to replace the damaged vehicle . let 's see -- what else happens ? well , younger brother strikes up an affair with evelyn nesbit only to discover she 's a total ditz that flits from man to man in search of easy money . disenchanted with his failed relationship , younger brother falls in with decidedly unwholesome elements that -- surprise -- play a big part in the film 's most important segment . mother and father drift apart over a number of issues , not the least of which involves sarah 's baby but also father 's stuffiness when it comes to progressive issues like feminism and race . booker t. washington ( moses gunn ) and harry houdini ( jeffrey demunn ) also pop in from time to time , although the former plays a bigger part in the proceedings . man , is this a tough film to summarize ! foreman and company pack a ton of stuff in two and a half hours and still fail to incorporate everything doctorow put in his book . oh well . only a television miniseries could hope to achieve a faithful adaptation , and even then it would n't work considering the very adult material doctorow placed in certain segments of his story . i think the best way to view the film is as a well-done period piece populated with a stellar cast . the costumes and the set pieces look great , from the glittery buildings populated by the elites to the dirty tenement houses where tateh plies his trade . performances are sublime . watching jimmy cagney play a tough as nails police commissioner is wonderful , especially when you consider he had n't appeared in a movie since 1961 . donald o'connor , pat o'brien , jeff daniels , and even jack nicholson turn up as well in smaller roles . the late kenneth mcmillan , a personal favorite of mine , deserves special mention for playing a racist scumbag that you 'll love to hate . throw in an amazing score from none other than randy newman , and the result is an extremely entertaining film that holds your attention for 155 minutes . extras on the disc include a commentary track with milos foreman and producer michael houseman , a lengthy deleted scene involving mcgovern 's character meeting anarchist emma goldman , and a featurette on the making of the film . my only real problem with `` ragtime '' the motion picture concerns the anachronistic attitudes on race . i highly doubt the police would take the word of a black man over a white firefighter back in the 1910s , nor would there be as much sympathy as there is for sarah 's plight . that 's the 1960s talking . anyway , the film is a winner for the reasons i stated above . i also should mention that any movie that shows all around jerk and agitator norman mailer taking a bullet in the head gets my vote any day !