`` howards end '' criterion dvd stands above previous release the original dvd release of `` howards end '' was the no-frills which probably was fine with everyone who has a tight-budget on dvd collection . however , after watching this version has totally changed my mind about criterion dvd editions . now , the picture is crisp and sharper compared to the grainy texture of the original transfer . the scene of leonard bast 's stroll in the meadows of bluebells was so much more dream-like with the magnificent violet and green colors on the screen . also , the music seems to surround all around you compared to the original release which seemed almost like watching on the tv with speakers in your face . you really have to appreciate that such a film gets the attention for being placed on criterion release . actually , this is released through hve which is pretty much sister company of criterion . anyways , the film itself is probably the best production of the merchant-ivory team . its beauty is in its storytelling of the wilcox and schlegel families with the best performace from emma thompson and anthony hopkins . the supporting cast is equally good with helena bonham-carter and vanessa redgrave . you probably will get the most satisfication from viewing the second disc . it has several commentaries from james ivory and ishmail merchant . also , helena bonham-carter tells her hardships with some scenes such as the row boat with the hidden roaring motor and also the rainy return home from a music recital with some trouble from the umbrella . it was also interesting to listen from the production team about the transformation of london into the edwardian period with the scenes and clothing/fashion . overall , this criterion dvd edition is worth every penny if you are a fan of filmmaking . you definitely appreciate the efforts and dedication of merchant and ivory to fund and make such a film . i really ca n't regret this purchase since many times , films do n't get the royal treatment of criterion . oscar-worthy movies are usually quickly released to the masses rather than being tailored for those with higher standards for the dvd viewing experience