awesome the lord of the rings movies made superstars out of dozens of actors and actresses . many have gone on to star in movies that made lots of money , but without the awards and critical recognition of the lotr movies . not so with viggo mortensen . right after lotr he followed with this awesome adventure story by disney . coming out the summer after pirates of the caribbean , this was supposed to be disney 's next big live-action , summer adventure hit . unfortunately , it flopped at the box office . luckily , it has made a comeback on the dvd market , which is where this reviewer saw it . all in all , it is a great movie , and probably one of the best live-action movies disney has produced in a long while ; judging from its ratings here on amazon and on imdb.com . in short , this movie is about frank hopkins , half-white , half-native american horserider who is mired in middle-age guilt and self remorse . along comes an opportunity for a change in scenery - a trip to the arabian desert for a race . frank takes the challenge with his horse hidalgo and of they go . the race across the arabian desert tests both rider and horse , and introduces them to a cast of characters that only an accomplished movie studio like disney could have created . we have the strong-willed girl full of innocence and inner strength , a fierce father and tribe leader who suffers no insults to his honor or intelligence , a backstabbing fellow racer who smiles until the final death , a seductive beauty willing to win at any costs , an arrogant prince with no moral bounds , etc , etc ... it all reminds our protagonist of his days in montana ! during the course of the race , which frank and hidalgo win of course ; both of them are tested to the limit . the movie ends on a triumphal note for both . the rider redeems his guilt by freeing hidalgo from human ownership forever , and freeing his consciensce of past betrayals . the soundtrack is awesome , the cinematography is great , the dialogue is realistic , and for once , a movie set in a foreign land that actually uses actors from that area speaking the language of that area ! my compliments to disney and the cast and crew of this movie . i highly recommend it to all audiences from teenagers on up