labyrinth - fantasy and fun the labyrinth is a delightful movie of fantasy and fun for all ages to enjoy . this has always been one of my favorite films , and going back to it as an adult only makes me enjoy and appreciate it all the more . jennifer connelly gives a superb performance as sarah , the main character , whose baby brother is taken by the goblin king ( david bowie in one of his best characters - who ironically gives an often sensitive and human performance while being fanciful and fantastic at the same time ; he wrote and performed all the music , which is also some of his best work ) . sarah must leave her world of make-believe and enter the very real and deceptive labyrinth to save her brother in time before he 's turned into a goblin . along the way , we encounter a large cast of jim henson 's puppet-creatures , some of which become sarah 's friends and helpers in her journey . the puppets are so believable that you soon forget that they are not real people . the movie is filled with magic , both on and off screen . the film is supplemented on this dvd with a `` making-of '' documentary - an original feature , narrated largely by jim henson himself - made during the actual production of the film ( released in 1986 ) . such a documentary makes one appreciate even more what goes into a movie like this and how complex the creatures are - what goes into their creation , how they operate , and how they interact with the sets and other characters ( especially in this case with the live actors ) . it 's a lot of fun to see this `` inside '' look , and more than anything gives a real sense of who jim henson was and how much this all really meant to him . my favorite quote from jim henson in this documentary was when he said ( about his inspiration and motivation when he makes a movie ) , `` when i go see a film , when i leave the theater ... i like to be happier than i was when when i went in , i like to leave with an up feeling , and i like a picture to have a sense of substance , to be about life and the things that matter to me , '' - a wonderful sentiment to remember in this day and age . lighthearted , fun , fantastical , funny , beautiful , exciting , and more `` real '' than many of today 's `` realities '' - extremely enjoyable and uplifting . as an added bonus , monty python member terry jones wrote the script ( and is interviewed in the documentary ) . cheryl mcfadden ( star trek : tng 's beverly crusher ) also did all the choreography in the film ( for both humans and puppets ) . : -