the fog of war -- we 're in it again last night , i watched the documentary , fog of war , about former secretary of defense , robert s. macnamara , the harvard-educated whiz kid who many call the architect of the vietnam war . it is the portrait of a brilliant , but profoundly troubled old man who weeps about selecting a plot of ground in arlington in which to bury jfk , but is steel-eyed as he recounts bombing sorties that destroy hundreds of thousands . while fighting hard to stay composed , it is evident that macnamara is haunted by his own dark deeds and the human condition but remains stubbornly out of touch with the part of himself that orchestrated them . the experiences he recounts - most notably , in wwii , devising ways for u.s. bomb to destroy most of japan , killing over 100,000 civilians a day to presiding over the dept of defense for eight years of the u.s. in vietnam - are stunning in his application of sophisticated management techniques and statistics to destroy lives and nations . were he not on the side of good , he observes at one point , he would surely be tried as a war criminal , to which i would add , on a scale equal to hitler . macnamara is a very bright man and the film is well done , even if the interviewer could n't quite decide whether to be in it or not , and therefore does n't use a microphone for his own questions . it 's also a very valuable instructive tool - recounting in chilling detail how close we came to nuclear war in the cuban missile crises , the cold war , world war ii and finally vietnam . it is also heavily edited , i would imagine so that macnamara could be firmly in charge , pulling back and stepping forward as suits him . it is therefore filled with omissions and lies - the willingness of the u.s. to go to war to protect its economic interests and the fabrication at johnson 's insistence of the gulf of tonkin resolution , a perfect analog to the trumped up intelligence bush used to justify invading iraq . although it is about history and the role of a man who dedicated much of his professional life to efficiently killing people ( in the name of ideals and for our leaders , he would hasten to add , sounding very similar to generals in the third reich ) , the film is especially chilling as it lays out eleven lessons for our nation , several of which we are flagrantly violating today in iraq ; namely , 1 , 2 , 6 , 7 , 8 & 11 . in fact , the parallels between the folly of believing we could win the war in indochina and our present situation in what was formerly persia are so profound , it 's a wonder there are n't more documentaries , novels , essays and intelligent discourse on the subject . ( read graham greene 's the quiet american , written in the late 50s , and the folly of our efforts in vietnam is plain enough for an 8th grader to get ) . 1 . empathize with your enemy . 2 . rationality will not save us . 3 . there 's something beyond one 's self . 4 . maximize efficiency . 5 . proportionality should be a guideline in war . 6 . get the data . 7 . belief and seeing are both often wrong . 8 . be prepared to reexamine your reasoning . 9 . in order to do good , you may have to engage in evil . 10 . never say never . 11 . you ca n't change human nature . what 's even sadder is that as many mistakes and as much damage as macnamara committed , he is head and shoulders above dick cheney , don rumsfeld and the rest of the bush administration . that george w. bush is out of the class of statesman is so obvious , i wo n't waste time describing how poorly he fares next to jfk , kruschev and even fellow texas cowboy , lyndon b. johnson . fog of war is an excellent film . in macnamara , shakespeare would feel vindicated for creating some of his darkest characters . pure evil does exist . it is , in its most extreme , as hannah arendt alleged after wwii , banal .