top notch transfer for `` green mile '' and extras make this worth the double dip the most important question is simple and straight forward ; is this two disc edition of `` the green mile '' worth the upgrade ? yes . the three hour film is now spread over two dual layered discs allowing breathing room for the sound and images along with the inclusion of a commentary track from the director . while the previous edition released in 1999 looked extremely nice this edition has sharper images and better definition . i suspect the same transfer was probably used and just that the increased space to spread the film over two discs probably helped improve ( along with improvements in digital technology ) the look of the film . we get a terrific and informative commentary by writer/director frank darabont . unfortuantely only two deleted scenes have survived as darabont points out in the commentary in discussion about a scene ( and the possibility of creating a `` director 's cut '' ) most films have their dalies transferred to hard drive for assemlbing a rough cut and many of the deleted scenes were erased . the two deleted scenes included are interesting but only hint at other scenes lost during the editing process . it used to be that deleted scenes would be tossed into a bin with trims for possible later use not the digital age has made that impossible unless the director saves all the trims . we also get a great 90 minute documentary on the challenges ( and fears ) that darabont faced in making another stephen king project . he was afraid that he would be seen only as a stephen king director ( or a director of prison dramas which are hardly in vogue right now ) which might limit his options as a director later in his career but he realized that the material was so powerful in human drama that it was worth the risk . we also get tom hanks make up tests , michael duncan clark 's screen tests , the teaser trailer ( along with a look at what constitutes a great teaser ) , original theatrical trailer . we also get the original vintage featurette on the production of the film . i would have liked a commentary from hanks and the other actors but with so much time having passed and the actors busy schedules it would have been difficult to assemble them for a sit down commentary track ( although they could have cobbled together a second audio track with actors interviews discussing the film although i doubt it would as valuable ) . nevertheless having compared my previous edition to this for the $ 6 extra dollars this is the edition to get . i should point out that many retailers ( costco among them ) have this available for $ 9.00 the same price as the original version is currently selling for making this a terrific bargain . reviw of the film below : `` the green mile '' the third film made by frank darabont from stephen king 's work is surprisingly strong and an outstanding follow up to darabont 's version of `` shawkshank '' . based on the five short serial novels ( now available as a single novel ) published back in 1997 . this marvelous follow up film is a terrific but flawed film that sags a bit at the beginning but manages to quickly pick up us its pace . it 's not that it is n't involving it is but the third act of the fil is where the film picks up its momentum . nominated for four academy awards ( including best picture ) this is a rich drama with strong performances all around including a terrific and moving performance from tom hanks in the lead . well worth picking up for fans of king 's work but , more importantly , for fans of moving dramas/fantasy films with more than touch of reality .