a champion of justice and integrity al pacino had appeared in `` the godfather '' , but was not yet the film icon that he started to become , in part , because of `` serpico '' . francisco serpico was an honest italian cop - courageously honest . when he saw widespread corruption among new york cops everywhere he was offered the opportunity to participate in the payoffs that the police were receiving left and right . initially , serpico simply abstained . the corrupt cops became of suspicious of serpico - at one point in the film he is told `` who can trust a cop who wo n't take a payoff ? '' because of his dedication to honest police work and a burning desire to `` do the right thing '' serpico goes from a non-participant in the graft to actively fighting it . he is understandably frustrated over and over when his reports to the police authorities are met with not much more than `` you 're doing a good job , frank , keep up the good work and we 'll reach out for you when the time is right '' . the right time never arrives and serpico , prodded by his friend bob blair ( played by tony roberts ) , brings his complaints outside of the department - first to the mayor 's office , then finally to the new york times . serpico is treated by his fellow police officers initially as an eccentric goody-goody , then later subjected to death threats . the film is bookended by a sequence in serpico 's life when he is transferred to a narcotics division then probably set-up for assassination . the point-blank bullet that serpico 's partners lead him into does n't kill him and frank is alive today , lecturing at police academies and for organizations interested in having a `` lamp lighter '' - giving support to those who have the inclination , but perhaps not the courage , to speak up about things that are plain wrong . now , thinking about the film later , i wonder what was going on in the minds of the other policemen . presumably , many of them did n't want to be crooked cops . certainly the `` extra '' money that they received was tempting - perhaps they looked at those extra dollars as compensation for what was not a lot of pay in a dangerous profession . serpico is one of the most visible examples of someone `` doing the right thing '' against incredible odds , even as his life was threatened . this is a good story that needs to be told and sidney lumet and al pacino tell it well