a man for his times . i have owned a copy of this film for a long time . i have probably watched it ten times , and i always tear up a little at each viewing . from the beginning newsreel , of a shell-shocked diane feinstein announcing the less than hour old murders of harvey milk and mayor george moscone , to the final reel of harvey milk 's prophetic and haunting statements , the viewer is mesmerized . though harvey milk was a san francisco city supervisor , his election in the 1970 's , that of an open and unrepentant gay man , made national headlines . he was a ray of hope to gay people everywhere , who at that time were unrepresented and , for the most part , still forced into the closet . this film not only gives insight into the philosiphy of harvey milk , but is a rare document into that not so long ago but seemingly ancient time . milk was a very eloquent speaker , and his sensibility , logic , and unapologetic viewpoint more often than not made mincemeat of any verbal opponent . this is best displayed in the footage of his debate with then california senator briggs , a buffoon like character , who not only was a terrible speaker , who could n't even clearly express his arguably irrational fears , but who in fact seemed much prissier than his nemesis milk . the public view at that time was about family values , with the anita bryants condeming homosexuals to hell for their decadent ways ( old times come round again ... . ) . milk 's voice opposed this view openly , and he seemed to predict his early demise at the hands of an assassin who was against what he represented . the notion of this martyrdom , and its romantic though fateful attraction to milk , has been argued . nevertheless , his bravery in representing the unrepresented can not be argued , and the sordid details of his love affairs and personal life should not diminish his message , nor the admiration he deserves . this film unfolds as it happened , seeming like fiction , but all too real . as milk is assassinated , along with the mayor , by the homophobic and disgruntled resigned supervisor dan white , whose subsequent trial , with the famous `` twinkie defense '' , and his being sentenced to an appalling five years for the murders , resulted in riots the likes of which the city had never seen . as one of those interviewed here expresses with sad resignation , ... if only the mayor had been killed , white would have gotten life , but the fact that milk , a gay man , had also been killed , leaned public sympathy towards white , an absurd but all too realistic conclusion.there are many moving , telling , historically signifigant moments in this film , but none so clearly represents those times , and milk 's loss and legacy , as the film of the nighttime march in san francisco right after the murders . seas of people , holding candles and standing silently , came together in a very moving moment in time . this film , which won best documentary at that years oscars , transcends its subject matter , and is simply a great documentary . gay rights have made much progress . and perhaps time has diminished their names and these memories to most all , excluding those who were there , are old enough to remember , or are gay . nonetheless , harvey milk is a representive and icon of the early gay rights movement , and his legacy , through schools named after him , organizations , and his place in history as a voice for the all too often voiceless , lives on .