humanity of jack nothing happened to jack kerouac . he died like the rest of us eventually will . jack kerouac was a regular human being . now you 're problably saying & quot ; yea i already knew that , so what ? & quot ; . but what you problably did n't know is that jack used literature to show how beautiful and ugly human beings can be . kerouac was a man equally feminine as he was masculine ( read charter 's biography about his relationships with ginzy , n.c. , as well as the women of his life . ) all of this is touched on in the video documentary , which thrives off the somber emotion , and that sort of & quot ; grey sky comtemplation & quot ; of things , which seems to pervade all of jack 's work . the video moves through jack 's life in a fairly straightforward manner . we see him as a shy french speaking mass . adolescent , a cleft chinned columbia undergraduate , a rucksack wanderer , a chanting buddhist , an aloof catholic , who loved his mother and drank much too much johnnie walker . in & quot ; what happnened to jack ? & quot ; we see jack as who he really was , a confused , tortured , disenfranchised , happy , unhappy writer who was very good at putting words together , which gave an honest glimpse of what was going on in his heart and his mind . there are many great moments in the video . any beat & quot ; junkie & quot ; will love the footage of jack and allen coolin ' it near columbia , smoking cigarettes and shootin ' pool . there 's a clip of bird and diz blowing hot jazz , the beats in s.f . at the debut of ginzy 's & quot ; howl & quot ; , mike mcclure , jack , snyder and ferlinghetti at big sur recitin ' and writin ' smooth synapses of the happenings there and around . there are countless anecdotes and picturs of all your & quot ; beat heroes & quot ; , which portray them as strikingly regular and very un-heroic . the video as a complete work is very delicious , but the tastiest bits come when jack reads & quot ; october in the railroad earth & quot ; to a montage of san francisco images . when a debonair jack reads & quot ; on the road & quot ; to steve allen 's bluesy piano in perfect phrasing and time . and last but not least there is the comical and strangely serious greg corso explaining genious , fame , and why he thinks the & quot ; beat generation & quot ; was a phenomenon . kerouac would problably want you to see this video because it shows that he was not a fad , an icon , nor a saviour for a generation . he was simply a regular man trying to find answers to very un-regular questions and he used his writing talent to unravel those mysteries