antwone fisher ( 2002 ) director : denzel washington cast : denzel washington , derek luke , joy bryant , salli richardson , malcolm david kelley , cody hodges , leonard earl howze , novella nelson . running time : 120 minutes rated pg-13 for violence , language and mature thematic material involving child abuse . based on a true story , and with a screenplay written by the eponymous hero from his own book , `` antwone fisher '' is at heart a study of psychological disturbance , laced with reasonable amounts of hollywood sugar and optimism about the human spirit . it 's a peculiarly american medicine , swallowed less willingly in some markets than others , which probably explains why criticism of the film often confused denzel washington 's directorial talents ( which are generally good ) with the various workings of his film 's plot , which can be argued about . antwone fisher 's story starts in the navy , where after a particularly vivid nightmare he slugs a fellow shipmate , and is hauled up before the captain . sent to navy psychiatrist jerome davenport ( washington ) , he begins to work out issues of anger that , it turns out , stem from an abused childhood to which is added a guilt complex over a dead friend . at the same time fisher ( played exceptionally well by newcomer derek luke ) , struggles to establish a first adult romantic relationship with the inviting cheryl ( joy bryant ) . in a parallel plot thread , washington 's character , the ever-reasonable dr. davenport , is having marital problems . in due course we discover that he has things to learn about communicating too and fisher is a catalyst for his own change . fisher 's screenplay reached the cameras by a somewhat circuitous route : after his stint in the navy and with little writing experience , he was hired by a sony executive to write his own story - a process which apparently underwent over 40 drafts before it was acceptable . most of the weaknesses of the film can be traced to the uncertainties he brings to his new craft , although washington 's direction papers reasonably well over many cracks . the most unconvincing elements are those subplots that revolve around the main character . these include the psychiatrist 's ironic domestic problems , as well as fisher 's tentative love life . one is tempted to see these narrative distractions as rather manipulative bolt-on elements , leavening the appeal of a central , harrowing , personal history . the fisher - cheryl romance for instance , while in context necessarily clumsy , is also ultimately gauche . and once consummated , it is left to languish without further comment , as if further exploration of this side to fisher 's maturing was unnecessary . perhaps sensing this central weakness , fisher 's script introduces another element into the young african-american 's tortured life as a foster child . during flashbacks he has to deal with 'slave-nation ' justifications from mrs. tate ( novella nelson ) , suggesting a link between the hurt done to the individual and that presumably done to the whole black race - a reasoning which is frankly unconvincing and none too interesting . significantly , such issues are given short shrift by the psychiatrist himself , and soon disappear from view . on the plus side is the central performance by derek luke as the hero , a perfectly judged acting job , that neatly balances inner rage and confusion - `` i do n't know what to do '' - with lack of self-pity . washington 's role is also well done . given the difficulty of the actor-director role , he is to be applauded for carrying off both so effectively and without fuss , either in front or behind the camera . this is washington 's directorial debut and he does an admirable job of painting a thorough picture of antwone and even though the film could have benefited from some tighter editing , it 's still a film that delivers all the emotional goods . arguably the most impressive thing about this film is the casting of luke who was a total unknown actor with a mere handful of television credits to his resume and obviously washington knew he possessed the right goods to pull off the role . despite its flaws , `` antwone fisher '' is an intriguing look into the real life of an estranged , enigmatic individual ; it is a film that will stimulate the heart and make you wish that small children did n't have to endure such horrors .