gantz and life after death gantz is a tense , emotion wringing story with a lot of blood and a side portion of sex . unless you are very tolerant of hardship , blood and sex this is n't for young children . parents wo n't want their children to watch these episodes until they are 18 , teenagers will love watching the show when they are 15 and perhaps even a bit younger and will miraculously be totally unharmed except being exposed to a couple of interesting ideas . ideas ( certainly not comprehensive ) : 1 ) what happens after you die could be heaven or hell , could be nothing , or it could be something else entirely that no one has considered before 2 ) young men tend to be more horny than have sense . ( amazing how for some reason this just is n't projected most times there are teenagers around ) 3 ) materialist idea of 'you ' or 'i ' . it appears that almost all of the characters in the show are 'captured ' at the time of their death and recorded and transported to gantz . this either implies that the soul is recordable and recreatable or that the soul is unnecessary in the recreation of a person . 4 ) the weaponry appears to be fairly original . kei kurono is certainly the most interesting character in the series . he can be annoying and is certainly obsessed with sex , but i think that merely makes him a relatively accurrate depiction of a teenage male . one of the key points in this very violent series is that violence is real and although the activities in the gantz games are certainly violent , you ca n't get away from violence even in a place that should be safe like home . this is demonstrated by kato 's little brother being beaten by their aunt that is taking care of them because their parents are dead . the effects of violence at home , rather than violence in the gantz activities are what appear to motivate kato to incredible rages . kato , who is the most reasoning character in the series . kato , who is unable to kill in order to survive or even protect his friends - is driven by the violence at home and school to beat people insensible . the series is neat . not all questions are answered in the first series . nor , i suspect are they answered completely in the second season . some questions perhaps we do not have the answers . some answers are held in the manga and possibly japanese anime versions of the show . i hope they continue to produce gantz anime , and perhaps some of those answers will be revealed . perhaps it will be like the original guyver series . one of the best anime i 've watched and i was horrified that the end , was in fact the end . clearly a show ( just as gantz ) that there is plently of material to continue the story . while i 'd love to continue reading the story in the manga , it appears to currently not be available in english . i will hope that people will be able to watch this show and not be put off by the sex and violence contained within it - just as they are contained in real life . it certainly provided me with a nice diversion . oh , and yes , i hate the fact that there are only 2 episodes per disk . who makes that kind of decision ? i have anime with 5 episodes per disk , 2 episodes per disk but most commonly 4 episodes per disk . do n't waste resources people ! 13 episodes could have easily fit on 3 disks compared to 6 ! the extra disks , cost to the manufacturer , extra materials for disk holders and the large box - man - it just makes sense to shave some cents off the cost of the series and sell it for the same amount and make more money than waste all those disks with 2 episodes each . blech . good thing i really like the series . atheists , agnostics and secular humanists will probably enjoy this series as well as people who are fairly moderate in temperance . folks that take their religion too seriously , do n't like anime , do n't like sex or feel that there is too much violence on tv - need not apply . funny how this is a japanese animation , with so much blood , guts and sex and they have lower incidences of violence in their country than in the usa . must not be the violence and sex on tv that causes the problems , folks ! if blood , guts and sex on tv causes it in reality then japan must be overrun with roving gangs , rapes and thousands of murders , but we know this is not true