the first woman in the workplace film 9 to 5 was the first film to address the glass ceiling . it takes a look at the workplace from a woman 's view . we first meet violet ( lily tomlin ) who has been working for consolidated companies for 12 years and has been overlooked for most of them . she trained her current boss and has the bruises to prove it . judy ( jane fonda ) is the new girl in the office . she is a divorcee ( he left her for his secretary ) and has never worked for a living . rounding out the heroines is doralee ( dolly parton in the film debut ) . she is the personal secretary of franklin hart ( dabney coleman ) and everyone thinks she is `` banging the boss '' . but the fun starts when violet is passed over for a promotion to a man she helped train . she then blurts out that hart has been spreading rumors that he 's been having an affair with doralee . and an employee is fired for a small infraction . this sends the three women to the local bar to drown their sorrows and they bond . each comes up with their fantasy way of killing the boss . judy is a big game hunter with hart as the prey . doralee plays role reversal and hart ends up on a rotisserie spit . but violet wants it to be like a fairy tale where she is snow white and the wicked witch and poisons hart . the next day , violet accidentally poisons hart 's coffee . when falls out of his chair and is knock unconscious , violet thinks she killed him . this leads to an all out comedy chase with violet steals the wrong corpse . the next day to the ladies surprise , hart shows up . the ladies regroup in the restroom but roz overhears them and reports it to hart . hart confronts the ladies but they wind up kidnapping him to find some incriminating evidence . the find something but it is going to take some time to get the evidence . over the next six weeks the ladies run the office in hart 's absence . hart escapes but the ladies changes have brought notice and hart is not above taking someone else 's glory . the subject matter here is very serious . so to do it as a comedy is very daring and it works perfectly . this is a film that many people identify with . everyone has had a boss or a teacher that oppressed them . and this film is what we all would like to do to these oppressors . you will laugh until it hurts . dvd extras : commentary by producer bruce gilbert and stars lily , jane and dolly 9 to 5 @ 25 - a 25 minute featurette with interviews with gilbert , writer director colin higgins and stars lily . jane , dolly and dabney coleman . deleted scenes - 10 mostly expanded scenes or alternate takes . the problem is without some kind of commentary we do not know why the scene was cut .