the strong should protect the weak -- or slaying the `` judicial/bureaucratic '' goliaths ! paul newman is great as a despairing , alcoholic `` david '' , once second in his law class , once part of a prestigious law firm , once married ... till he dared to stand up to his dishonest law firm owner/and father-in-law who wanted to fix a jury . the above is past history ... just mentioned in the film . it is some years after , and alcoholic newman , with only 4 cases in the last few years , ... has an epiphany ... where his youthful religious and ethical training reawakens as he gets the picture , so to speak , of a woman treated unjustly , whom he can help . he forgets himself and his troubles , and the people who have pushed him around , ... and starts fighting for the brain damaged young woman ... against the hospital and doctors who damaged her . he will later awaken the conscience ( as the movie hints ) of one of the `` goliaths '' he goes up against . however , there are pitfalls ... as opposing lawyer concannon is not above using any trick -- -or person ... to destroy the case . paul newman 's epiphany scene ( which i wo n't describe further to spoil it for you , but which is clearly recognizable ) is quite moving . his goliaths include : the biased , hostile judge , the `` prince of darkness '' superlawyer concannon ( played well by james mason , always good at suave villians ) , the doctors and **most** of the attending support staff who attended the unfortunate deborah ann kaye , ... and the somewhat hesitant bishop brophy , head of st. catherine 's , the hospital where mrs. kaye lost her baby and suffered massive brain damage . set in boston , a largely catholic city ( i am told ) we here have nominal catholics pitted against those of their denomination who take the christian `` good samaritan '' story seriously . my family caution : there are some cuss words and a brief suggestion of a bedroom scene . the verdict implies the barely seen 12 who also are key players ... the jury , who must deliver the verdict . will they go with the letter of the law ? or -- -its spirit ? ( if you are familiar with this phrase from the christian faith , you have the answer ... ) ( hint of spoiler below ) my wish is that brain injured terri schiavo had had a jury who could see the spirit of the law ! instead we had lots of judges fighting turf wars against a congress that dared ( how dare they question the unquestionable judges seemed to be the attitude ) to merely ask for a second look at the whole case . meanwhile , terri slowly starved to death ... shame on us ! shades of nazi eugenics ! ! !