a classic tale of adventure , true love , and revenge ! when it comes to the great classics of anime history , there are a few that stand out . anime like gundam and macross , the genre known as mecha . these shows are known for their drama , romance , intrigue , beautiful animation , classic musical scores , and giant humanoid robots who 's pilots fight heroically against a seemingly unstoppable force of evil . shoji kawamori 's classic macross is really required viewing for anyone who enjoys mecha sagas , delivering all the required elements in huge way . shoji kawamori is a genius , whose incredible robot designs have been used in many anime classics . why do i mention this ? because in addition to macross he created escaflowne ... what is escaflowne ? it is quite frankly , the greatest television show i have ever seen in my life . it is the classic story of the hero with a thousand faces told from the perspective of the goddess/protector . it is a science-fiction fantasy epic set in a world that 's a cross between medieval europe and the asian/middle eastern regions . it is a story of an ordinary girl named hitomi who travels to another world and finds herself its possible savior , her destiny intertwined with its heros . it is the story of small warring kingdoms that must unite in order to stop an evil empire seemingly bent on nothing less than world conquest and destruction . it is the tale of a bold and chivalrous knight , a young king bent on revenge for the destruction of his kingdom , a cute cat-girl , princesses , merchants , villains with noble causes and villains who are monsters . and of course , the giant stone mecha that could save the world ... or perhaps destroy it ... if there exists such a thing in this universe as a perfectly balanced show , this is it . there is character development ( like the perfect knight who has a hidden past , or the long-lost brother who works for the enemy but desperately wants to save his brother ) , an incredible plot ( the lost people of atlantis , an engine which can alter fate , and an evil emperor whos ultimate goal is to create a world-wide utopia of perfect happiness ) , super-cool technology ( like the coolest mecha i have ever seen anywhere , the guymelefs ) , heart-warming ( or is it heart-wrenching ? ) romance ( complete with love triangles that will keep you guessing ) , action sequences to die for ( giant stone mechs fighting with broadswords ! ! ! invisible giant robots with liquid-metal tentacle weapons ! dragons ! ! ! ) , and characters that are very deep indeed ( hitomi goes through an enormous transformation emotionally through the course of the story ) . although many people prefer japanese to english in their anime , this show features one of the finest dubs in any anime you will ever watch , with great performances all-around . the standout though , is probably the voice of folken [ played to perfection by paul dobson ] ( the way he said some of the lines left me awestruck , and one scene had me ready to cry ) . the animation and art is also quite glorious , featuring a gorgeous watercolor style slightly reminiscent of gundam wing , but with better use of color and far more complex and beautiful backgrounds . i must say that the soundtrack of escaflowne is one of the finest soundtracks to anything ever crafted . i currently have 3 cds of the music ( and i plan to buy the others one day ) , and i listen to it a lot . yoko kanno 's score for this anime could best be likened to some of john william 's best ( as it has hints of john williams ' influence through the use of horns to denote action and strings to show emotion , as well as choral chants for key moments ) . take the piece `` dance of curse '' for instance . it reminds one a lot of `` duel of the fates '' , but it came out first , and personally i think it 's better . played only twice during the entire show , it 's one of the most thrilling pieces of music ever crafted . and i havne't even mentioned the awesome opening song or the incredible theme that ends the last episode . in the end , escaflowne completely transcends its genre to become a true classic . it 's directed as well ( or better ) than the best movies of hollywood history ( using dramatic angles and the like ) , and doubtless fans will be eager to return to its world again and again . one of the few negative points i can think of for this series are that the main character and the cat-girl merle can be a little annoying at times ( especially toward the beginning of the series ) . but by the end of the series , i do n't think there was a single character that i did n't love . i also really hate the song that plays at the end of every episode `` mystic eyes '' . it does n't go with the whole theme of the series , and after a few listens it really started to grate on my ears . believe it or not , for all its glorious ideas and execution , this show also has no filler ! originally , it was to be a 36 episode show like macross . so when it was cut down to 26 episodes , the filler had to go or there would be no time for the huge story that 's told . and ultimately , it 's the story that matters most . as i watched this show for the first time i found myself addicted to its world , in love with its characters , awestruck with it 's beauty , and enraptured with its music . the ideas though , were what made me decide this is the greatest tv show i have ever seen . in this show you will see fate altered , armies nuked , people who are half animal , creatures that can shape-shift , and even an incredible sequence where hitomi travels into the mind of a character to stop his journey into death and bring him back to the mortal realm . when i had finished escaflowne my mind was full of questions . what if people and events were attracted to each other and fate was something you could measure and manipulate ? does the pursuit of a perfect world justify any means ? and what of the escaflowne guymelef ? why was it built ? just how powerful could it ultimately become ? to this day i am fascinated by the transformation that van goes through , and i keep asking myself if the escalfowne itself was a living thing capable of turning its master to evil . maybe someday i 'll know . until then i 'll have to satisfy myself with ... escaflowne .