all-time classic social satire i saw fight club in the theaters in '99 , not knowing anything about chuck palahniuk at the time and figuring at best it would just be a decent action movie . what i saw absolutely blew me away as a film that makes one *question* life , consumerism and where we 're going as a society . it was far better than any standard action/thriller could have been ; so often it triggered in me brief moments of introspection ( `` how much can you know about yourself if you 've never been in a fight '' , `` if you died right now how would you feel about your life ? `` , the whole raymond k. hessel scene ) ; intellectual script-writing hilariously witty in some places and profoundly philosophical in others , and to top it all off probably the most innovative ( albeit difficult to believe ) surprise ending in film history cement fight club as a cult classic with a multi-layered , complex message that would make it perfect for a university student review essay . today , 7 years and several palahniuk books , fight club tee shirts and posters later ; after making my internet banking , credit card , phone , online gaming and isp logins `` tyler durden '' ; after police found a bunch of high schoolers in another county in my state imitating the movie in a local barn when they were busted after coming home to their parents with bloody noses ; after several people have read my email addy and quoted the movie or shot back a quick `` heyyy ... . a fight club fan ! `` - the movie remains needless to say , my all-time favorite . there is very little grey area with people who 've seen it ( look no further than the rated reviews here ) - most either like it or hate it . if you 're a more intellectual `` thinker '' and a little graphic violence and foul language does n't easily offend you , give it a viewing ( or read the novel if you 're more bookworm than movie buff ) . the sign of a good song is that its melody and lyrics stay in your head long after you 've finished listening to it . the sign of a good *movie* is not only that its scenes and classic one-liners from an extremely intelligently-written script replay in your mind because they 're just that memorable , but that its message is so timely , relevant and resonant to modern life with many people that it 's still talked about today . there are message boards on the net still discussing and debating new talking points about the movie today , 7 years later ; there are n't too many other films that have sparked this kind of intelligent , thoughtful and self-exploratory discussion that to this day is still ongoing . some of the more misogynistic scenes ( `` i 'm wondering if another woman is really the answer we need '' ) are cast in a new light given palahniuk 's recent coming out of the closet , surprising many fans . on to the dvd itself . i own many , and this one contains the most extra material including but not limited to extensive commentary , fight club paraphernelia , a couple hilarious psa 's and a cool music video . it 's considered by many to be one of the most comprehensive dvd 's ever produced . as to negatives : the film has some fairly graphic violence and a great deal of cussing & cursing , the latter of which detracts from a script ( imo ) . if you can move past this , get this dvd or at least give it a rent and watch what is destined to be one of the most talked-about classics of all time