a highly original western comedy ... a 1990 's western comedy featuring mel gibson , maverick was a breath of fresh air when first appeared in theaters . the film does n't take itself so seriously as many films with a western setting tend to do . based on the 1950 's television series by the same name in which james garner had a starring role , maverick is a uniquely clever and entertaining adventure comedy ... when bret maverick ( mel gibson ) needs $ 25,000 to enter a winner-take-all poker tournament , he travels through towns en route to the tournament in the hopes of winning every dollar he needs . but he quickly encounters angel ( alfred molina ) , a roughneck poker player in his own right who tries to kill maverick ( his attempt inevitably fails ) . along the way , maverick meets up with ms. annabelle bransford ( jodie foster ) - a slick , conniving poker player who picks maverick 's pocket following a brief romantic encounter . when maverick catches her , he forces her to wash his shirt as punishment . shrinking his designer shirt , annabelle runs off to catch a riverboat with maverick running after her . after boarding the boat , the two are joined by marshal zane cooper ( james garner ) - a kind , retired sheriff famous throughout the west . cooper 's chivalry and hospitality greatly contrast with maverick 's brisk demeanor when it comes to dealing with ms. bransford . as the three travel cross country , they face a series of pitfalls such as a dead coach driver who almost runs their coach off the top of a cliff , a showdown with hundreds of indians , and maverick 's financial dealings with an archduke from russia . separated in the confusion , the three eventually meet again on the riverboat lauren belle , home of the championship poker game hosted by the riverboat 's owner commodore duvall . making use of his quick wit , maverick raises the extra cash he needs to join the poker game ( as well as a few thousand extra for annabelle bransford ) . commodore duvall puts marshal zane cooper in charge of guarding the $ 500,000 in entry fees for the tournament in which angel also happens to be a participant . but in addition to beating angel , maverick faces other obstacles of even greater challenge ... overall , maverick is great entertainment . the acting is superb on all fronts with standout performances by mel gibson , jodie foster , and james garner . each of the main characters creates a likeable persona . and what makes this movie a must-see ( because the plot leaves much to be desired ) is the ability of the on-screen characters to create a personal connection with the audience . several of the scenes in this film are absolutely hilarious , such as the ones with joseph ( graham greene ) . maverick is n't the type of movie that will win academy awards or leave one pondering the fundamental principles of the universe , but it is a whole lot of fun . and if you want to do is laugh , give this movie a try ... the dvd repor