i liked it ... just not as much as everyone else does . `` the searchers '' is considered by many to be a masterpiece of both the western genre and of movies in general . it 's even on the american film institute 's top 100 ( # 96 ) . i liked the film ; it 's got a lot of good things about it , but one thing i look for in a film to really call it `` great '' is entertainment . the movie is entertaining , but a movie on that same list that 's a few notches below it ( 'unforgiven ' ) was a much better movie ; both as a film and as entertainment . anyway , i 've seen over a thousand movies and have somehow never seen a john wayne film . wayne plays ethan edwards , a former confederate soldier who shacks up with his brother and his family . after they 're all killed and his two nieces are kidnapped , ethan sets out on an obsessive quest to get them back . one of the nieces is found dead soon after and the rest of the film is about them trying to find the living one debbie ( natalie wood ) . along with him is martin pauley ( jeffrey hunter ) , a man ethan does n't really like . ethan hates indians and martin is 1/8 comanche . early in the film , you find out that ethan actualyl saved martin when his family was killed by indians and gave him to his brother and his brother 's wife . even though he seems disagreeable , it sounds like ethan 's quest in honorable enough . but , you 'd be wrong . he 's not out to save debbie , but to kill her . when people are kidnapped by the indians , they pretty much become one ... and ethan ca n't have that . the movie takes place over a long time span and there were times that , i thought , the movie seemed longer than it was . the film has beautiful cinematography though , especially when you consider that the film was released in 1956 . john wayne 's performance is very good and , you find later , multilayered . having read about the film a little bit , i found that it inspired movies like taxi driver and even the buddy holly song `` that 'll be the day '' ( which is a line ethan frequently says ) . i should make this clear that i 'm not a huge fan of classic westerns , so that may have something to do with my view of the film . i know that certainly not everyone will agree with me about it . but i can say this . if you 're a big fan of westerns and/or john wayne . you 'll probably like this movie . grade :