the story of the world 's most famous disco in the mid to late 1970s , disco music was king and everyone enjoyed going to the clubs and dancing the night away . in this story of new york 's world-famous studio 54 , the story is told through the eyes of shane o'shea ( ryan phillippe ) , a young man from new jersey who manages to get onto the guest list and into the very exclusive club . a gas station attendant by day , shane soon finds himself as one of the regulars and manages to secure himself a job at the club as a bus boy/bartender . shane befriends two of the club 's workers , greg randazzo ( brechin meyer ) and his wife anita ( salma hayek ) . they invite shane to move in to their apartment , but greg soon suspects that shane and anita are having an affair . shane actually has fallen for julie black ( neve campbell ) , another regular . a soap opera star , shane is intrigued by her beauty and is immediately drawn to her . after a while , the two begin a relationship . meanwhile , steve rubell , played magnificently by mike myers , has been laundering money from the club . each night , he sends bags full of money out with the trash to be picked up and taken away , out of sight of the i.r.s . this scam goes on for quite some time until finally the i.r.s . finds out about rubell 's operation and raids the club . shane , spurned in the end by julie , eventually leaves 54 to become a college student and restaurant manager . steve rubell is sentenced to 18 months in prison and is forced to sell 54 in a plea agreement . he is allowed to remain as a `` consultant '' to the new ownership , and he also throws a big party at the club 's re-opening , attended by shane , greg , and anita . studio 54 was indeed the king of the discos . celebrities from all over the world , including andy warhol and truman capote , were regular visitors to the club . the music was loud , and sex and drugs were freely available . unfortunately , 54 never really regained its prominence after its re-opening , and it closed down for good in 1986 . steve rubell died in 1989 at age 45 . this movie does an excellent job of showcasing the very famous club , right down to the throngs of people who begged to get in each night . the acting in the film is very good , but mike myers stands out above the rest . his superb portrayal of the eccentric but troubled steve rubell is the highlight of the film . having grown up in the 70s , i remember reading about studio 54 and what a fantastic place it was . this movie shows both the bright and dark sides of the famous disco . i recommend this movie highly . if you 're a child of the 70s like me , then you 'll remember the disco music and the almost surreal essence that 54 had . watch this movie and enjoy a trip back to when disco ruled and 54 was the place everyone wanted to go