classic its setting and subject matter were somewhat grim to put it mildly , but that did n't stop trainspotting from becoming one of the top movies of the nineties , and having just watched it this morning i can safely state that it holds up well to this day . while i have n't read the irvine welsh novel on which this movie is based , i have read some of his other work , and the movie is a perfect distillation of his storytelling style-rapid-fire , filled with bawdy set pieces , characters living on the edge of acceptable society , and lots and lots of swears . it 's also the kind of violent , genre-defying , and pop culture reference-laden movie , complete with way-cool soundtrack , that emerged with such force in the nineties and spawned so many imitations in this decade . for my money at least , this movie is a much more entertaining and convincing look at the world of heroin users than the interesting , but annoyingly depressing and pedantic , requiem for a dream , which came out a few years later to almost hyperbolic praise . trainspotting is a blunt , unapologetic look a life most of us can scarcely imagine , delivered with a combination of hilarity and horror that effortlessly intertwines these two extremes . it does n't shrink from depicting the damage caused by heroin addiction , but it does n't downplay all the fun of it either , which is what lends it so much of its gritty believability . trainspotting also marked the arrival on the international scene of director danny boyle , whose manic visual style would later serve him well on the slightly-less-brilliant 28 days later . perhaps most impressively , it manages to contain one of my all-time top ten movie lines ( `` who needs reasons when you 've got heroin ? `` ) , my favorite nickname ever , fictional or otherwise ( `` we called him mother superior on account of the length of his habit '' -brilliant ) , and more `` oh my god , did i just see that ? '' images than you 'll find in fifty hollywood blockbusters . in boyle 's hands the crazy imagery practically flies off the screen , be it human waste flying from a sheet across a room , the movie 's protagonist climbing into scotland 's filthiest toilet to retrieve something he lost , or the hallucinatory , nightmarish haze of a cold-turkey withdrawal . the unrestrained depictions of sex , nudity , violence , drug use , and bodily functions make this a movie not to be viewed by the squeamish , but they perfectly suit its unflinching examination of the sordid goings-on in one country 's drug-laden urban culture . the action is filtered through the point of view of the movie 's narrator , mark renton , a cynical but insightful twentysomething travelling through a nihilistic culture of nightclubs and drug dens without many concerns beyond getting his next fix because , well , all other concerns seem petty and inconsequential by comparison . although i do n't use drugs ( well , the ones arbitrarily declared illegal anyway ) , it 's not exactly hard to understand renton 's reasons-in a world as numbing as the one that surrounds him , the ephemeral rush of a heroin high is more tangible and true than most of what people use to distract themselves from their unfulfilling lives . really , that 's what the movie 's about-the relentless pursuit of that elusive and nebulous concept known as happiness . renton 's not that bad a guy ; he mostly just wants to score some drugs and sex and listen to some iggy pop , and if his lifestyle causes anyone else ( i.e. , his parents ) to suffer , well , that 's just an unfortunate byproduct . besides , it 's not like he 's missing that much : the scotland of trainspotting is a rather depressing land of dingy , detroit-esque post-industrial decay , and even the natural beauty of the local highlands is n't enough to overcome the cynicism that 's overtaken renton and most of his friends . viewed against this backdrop , it 's easy to ask whether the straight life is even worth it . although ewan macgregor plays renton in career-making fashion ( too bad he spent all that time on those mediocre star wars prequels ) , robert carlyle delivers the most immediately enjoyable performance as the menacing begbie , an unhinged , beer-swilling psychopath who looks at heroin users with contempt but has no problem cutting a swath of destruction through any bar where someone crosses him , intentionally or not . even though ( or perhaps because ) he 's so violent and unpredictable , begbie gives the movie a sort of bizarre comic relief through the sheer force of his twisted personality alone . even though i would n't get within fifty feet of the guy , i could n't help but enjoy watching him , especially with carlyle turning in such a likably maniacal performance . besides , in addition to what i 've written above , how can you not like a movie that features a shot of a dead baby crawling along a ceiling and rotating its head 180 degrees ? if that does n't scream fun for the whole family , i do n't know what does