a history of violence : the best film ( 2005 ) david cronenberg 's `` a history of violence '' is the type of film that you may not know how will wind up in the end , or what will happen next , but from the chilling starting sequence featuring what is the most violent image of the whole film , you know it 's a film that 's ready to raise your hairs , maybe for sheer pleasure or maybe because it 's an exciting experience . the film probably shoul n't be qualified as a thriller , even if it is a thriller and it is full of non cheap thrills and emotions , but as the modernization of westerns . it is , after all , a western . the character portrayed brilliantly by viggo mortensen is tom stall , and as the movie unravels we see that 's he 's no different to the man with no name or to will kane , for he is just the `` good '' cowboy , the man that we route for , the man that we want shoots the other men . as the movie advances , the plot does n't thicken or gets more complex . as a matter of fact it 's tough finding a plot so simple , yet so compelling and fun . the movie is quite fun , specially for those who like their movies to be charged with mordant black humor , and violence served in both spectacular showdowns and straight shots of blown away faces and blood splattered frames . the acting is another thing . it is the best acted movie of the year , featuring a sexy and absolutely spectacular maria bello , a spooky ed harris , who under some makeup seems like a man you do n't want to mess with , and william hurt , in a part no longer than ten minutes , but ten minutes that opaque any other film on the silverscreen . add to that cronenberg 's direction , which filles every scene with dinamite , and every shot with visual flair and delight . as the final credits are rolling we get the sensation that this is a flawless film , and as our eyes rehearse it over and over again , we get to the conclusion that this is a flawless film . some may say that it has no sense and that it is ridiculous , but if you think about it munich and syriana , and l'enfant and red eye and casablanca and almost every other movie made had the same purpose : just to entertain . that is after all the final purpose of films , and this one succeeds high above the ground . it is also the best thriller , western , comedy and drama that has passed on the screens on a very long time .