mugen 's the name pal , you got that ? wow ! that 's one word that comes to mind . wow ! ever since tenchi muyo was taken off the air , their has not been any anime shows that have interested me . for years i searched , never finding anything worth watching . then , i sort of gave up . i would occasionaly check adult swim for any signs of a new great anime but to no avail . then one night it happened : i saw the second episode of samurai champloo air on adult swim . at first , i wasnt paying attention to the words and action . i was looking at what had caught my eye when i was flipping channels : the animation ! the artwork was incredible ! the colors that were used to draw the characters and the world they were interacting in made it seem real . it was almost as if it was a sitcom , with real people . only tis was completly animated . it was eye-popping ! then , i started to watch the show itself and the show was great ! ! ! anyway , since then i have been addicted to the series and i have six of the volumes . but alas , the last one ( number seven ) comes out this month on the 17th . the show is coming to an end . so anyway , im going to write reviews for each of the volumes and rate them . i rated volume one of samurai champloo below : episode one : tempestuous temperaments- jin , mugen and fuu meet for the first time . mugen is looking for a challenge and hears about three `` bad asses '' and sends some cowards to go get them . mugen however , does not know that jin has killed them already . mugen mistakes jin as one of the `` bad asses '' and attatcks him . a brilliant fight insues , and jin mugen and fuu end up travling together . i rate episode one a 10/10 episode two : redeye reprisal- mugen cut a mans arm off in episode one . in this episode , the man is out for revenge . the man recruits an ogre by the name of oniwaka to help him exact revenge on mugen . also , jin encounters a highly skilled assasin who has been hired to kill him . another great fight . and last of all , our modest ( cough ) fuu gets smashed . i rate this episode 9/10 episodes 3 & 4 : hellhounds for hire part one and two- the three heros part ways but fate eventually brings them back together . jin is hired by a gang as a bodygaurd . mugen is hired as a bodyguard by a rival gang . fuu is tricked into capture and is forced to work in a broffel house . i give both episodes 3 & 4 10/10 thats the end of my review for volume one of samurai champloo . if you are new to the series check out my reviews for each volume to see if you want to get the volumes . i will say this , they are really expensive . but they are worth the money . i get them at best buy and they are 24.99 plus tax and each volume has four episodes on it . if you have not bought this dvd and are debating weither it is good or not , i reccomend you buy it . i can personally vouch for this dvd . of course , its always good to check other reviews by different people as well . later . i hope this review helped