oh , the things this kid does ... ferris bueller ( matthew broderick ) is a kind of hero to every high-school aged young adult out there . he 's the kind of guy whom we all want to be , really . he acts like he does n't have a care in the world , and lives life to fullest . the opposite of this guy would be his best friend cameron frye ( alan ruck ) , a sort of uptight worrywart who deserves to be brought out of his shell by the easygoing ferris . in this film , ferris fakes out his parents into calling it another `` sick '' day for him , his ninth to be exact . in order to convince just about everyone that he is really sick , he consults his collection of electronic sound effect equipment for the process . another antithesis of ferris is his life-is-not-fair sister jeannie ( jennifer grey ) who suspects something is up , as does the sly-but-not-so-slick dean of students , ed rooney ( jeffrey jones ) . it 's funny how so many trains of thoughts seem to dominate this movie and in the events that happen for instance , ferris says that he has to keep coming up with new illnesses in order to make 10 sick days . it 's amazing ; people , like his parents who are most easily duped , would think that this one sick kid when in reality , he 's having a ball . however , knowing that if he gets cauught and may not graduate , he decides to make this one count and be worthwhile . ferris and cameron bail out ferris ' girl sloane ( mia sara ) with a dead grandmother ploy , and together the trio spend the day doing the town in chicago driving the '61 gt convertible ( oh , yeah ! ) . this movie has a special message and feeling to it that 's as old as time . it 's about conquering fears mostly and just really appreciating life . for after all , as our hero says : `` life moves pretty fast ; if you do n't stop to take a look every once in a while , you might miss it . '' that 's the moral of the story , really . `` bueller ... bueller ... bueller ? '' not here , but he 'll be there in your own home sharing his funny but wise philosophies of life , and showing you how to open your eyes in making the most of every day