charming and delightful escape to venice , italy this delightful italian comedy , shows how rosalba , an italian hosewife , taken for granted by her family , who has lived her whole life in pescara , italy ... takes a vacation from them all to visit venice , italy . there she begins a new life with a zany group of characters who become her friends . she finds pleasure in simple everday life activities . she takes joy in spontaneously responding to the new experiences this vacation has opened for her . she meets a waiter , who provides her with a room to stay in when her funds are low . she gets a job in a florist 's shop , where the owner is an eccentric old gentleman who has the habit of discussing anarchy . she rekindles her musical talent after discovering an accordion ... rosalba is accepted for who she is by her new cohorts . in this environment , rosalba compares her old constrained stifling life with her recently discovered freedom . the question is , will rosalba give up her freedom , now that she has experienced independence ? the film begins as a tour guide describes ancient roman ruins and explains in lyrical verse how the greeks and italians intermarried and essentially began western civilization , the group is provided a snack break . rosalba is inadvertently left behind when she visits the ladies restroom where she accidentally drops her ring in the toilet . after fishing out the ring with a bit of difficulty , she steps out only to discover the tour bus driving off - without her . she telephones her husband mimmo who berates her for getting lost . this reaction on his part , gives her the spontaneous impetus to take a vacation on her own from her former life . the viewer can sense the birth of this plan as rosalba hitches a ride with two unusual characters ... the final destination of one of the drivers is venice , on the spur of the moment , as pescara , her home city is nearing , she decides to visit venice , a place she has wanted to see but never been . the crux of the comedy is built around how her macho husband , who owns a bathroom fixture business with his brother , attempts to track her down in venice . mimmo interviews a portly young man named constantino for a job as a plumber , when he discovers his hobby is reading detective stories , he offers constantino an opportunity to *become* a detective . constantino 's adventures in venice are very funny . when he gets to venice it is the busy tourist season and hotel rooms are scarce . a shady character offers him a hotel room which ends being a rinky dinky old houseboat ... to find rosalba , he posts flyers with her photo in many strategic locations around venice . after seeing one , rosalba phones and meets with him but manages to escape ... constantino follows her stealthfully to her apartment . grazia , the masseuse , mistakes him for a client and he lies to gain access into the building . grazia falls in love with him and constantino reciprocates the feelings . there are immensely funny episodes and comedic events which play out as this couple works out their relationship . rosalba does eventually return home to her family , filled with nostalgic memories about her independent vacation . suddenly , the waiter with whom she shared many delightful moments in venice visits her and declares his love ... rosalba has a serious decison before her , to remain in her old life or take up the new independent one . the viewer will be pleased with her choice . erika borsos [ pepper flower