absolutely hilarious ! ! ! i just saw this on comedy central today and laughed so hard i cried ! ! and i was sick with a cold and flu , too , but it was so good that , after it was over , my husband and i went out shopping to try and find a copy to buy so that we could see it without the editing and commercials . found a copy to rent , but it 's so good i want my own copy to keep ! could n't find it anywhere to buy today , so i 'm ordering it from amazon now and thought i 'd put in my two cents about how great it is . kirsten dunst and michelle williams are too priceless as the 15-year-old best friends who stumble unwittingly into the watergate mess in 1972 . they are befriended by tricky dick , who gives them jobs as offical white house dog walkers of his famous dog `` checkers '' in an attempt to please them so they wo n't talk about what they 've seen ( they do n't know what they witnessed anyway , which is what makes it so funny ) . the entire cast is first rate and i have n't laughed this hard at a new comedy ( new for me , i mean ) since i first saw `` me , myself & irene '' . this movie is n't nearly as crude in humor as the latter , but as far as the writing and the comedic talents of the fantastic cast , it ranks right up there with any of the funniest movies i 've ever seen . sure to put you in a great mood ! : ) : ) the simplistic premise of the movie could have made it go either way ( either really great or really awful ) , but these actors made it fantastic to watch and must have certainly had a blast filming it . i do n't know if the dvd has outtakes but i hope so ; i bet they would be hilarious to see . i was holding my breath the last few seconds as i waited for the ending , hoping it was going to be worthy of the rest of the film , and was not dissapointed . laughed my b**t off at the ending ! ! give it a watch ; if you love to laugh , and especially if you were a dreamy teenage girl in the 70 's who covered her bedroom walls with posters of bobby sherman and david cassidy ( like i did ! ) , you 'll love this movie . it 's not just for 40-something gals , either ; my 50-year-old husband laughed himself silly too ! !