a timeless masterpiece on universal themes imagine you found out you were going to die in a few months . what would you do ? what would you decide mattered to you ? what would you think you had accomplished ? what would you consider left unaccomplished ? what would you want your legacy to be ? those are the questions facing the centeral character in akira kurosawa 's ikiru ( meaning `` to live '' ) . the brilliant actor takashi shimura plays the role of kanji watanabe , a midlevel bureaucrat who has spent his entire career doing little more than protecting his own job by looking busy while actually accomplishing little . one day this man learns he has terminal cancer and will soon die . this revelation makes him start reviewing his life , and he concludes he has done nothing worthwhile . he tries to `` live it up '' with newfound friends and loose women , but this does not fulfill him . he can not bring himself to tell his own son and daughter-in-law about his fate ; caught up in their own petty problems , they seem to have little time for the old man . eventually he meet a kind of kindred spirit , another worker at the bureaucracy who is quitting her job because she too feels she is doing nothing useful . but even she can not help this poor man who needs love , fulfillment , a sense of purpose . and so watanabe finds his own reason to go on through his final days , a reason centered around doing genuine good , regardless of the chance of reward . after he dies the glory all goes to lesser bureaucrats who , while previously fighting him every step of the way , now bask in the spotlight and claim the glory , paying him much lip service while denying him true honor . normally i do n't give so detailed a plot description , but i 've done so here for two reasons : 1 ) few people , particularly in america , have seen or even heard of this movie , and 2 ) i want to point out how universal the themes are , how this movie could easily be remade today in any other country with any other culture and any other cast . while watching ikiru i kept thinking a good modern title might be , `` the more things change the more they stay the same . '' like so many kurosawa films , this movie , though black and white and old , feels completely contemporary in its concerns and its content . while much has been made of kurosawa 's concern with the japanese conflict between collective and individual , the issues in ikiru resonates with any culture , not just japan 's . these bureacrats sound like the bureaucrats with which we all are familiar . this is a very deep film , filled with themes of existentialism that movies rarely tackle . it asks the biggest questions that can be asked of a life . at the same time , it never feels pretentious or preachy . the story is complex , not in terms of plot twists , but in terms of its `` inner life . '' yet with a running time of two hours and 23 minutes , ikiru moves very quickly , feeling faster than a typical 90-minute hollywood film . this is probably because there is lots of ground to cover , and also because of the effortless acting . takashi shimura 's performance as watanabe is one of the greatest of cinema . though shimura is not widely known in the west , he was one of japan 's major actors of the 1950s and 60s , and kurosawa worked with him often . see him in kurosawa 's seven samuri , made just two years after this film , for a completely different performance , one of swagger and bravado . other cast members are also outstanding , especially miki odagiri as a young female coworker . she too feels straitjacketed by her job as a government paper-pusher , but she is young and not tied down by responsibility and so she leaves . on a sort of date with watanabe she confides that she has humorous names for everyone in the department based on how they behave , and that his is `` the mummy . '' rather than be offended , he agrees with her and this insight helps to shape his vision of himself and what he must do to be redeemed . it 's hard to believe the same director who made such beautifully-composed samurai films also could direct contemporary dramas that look as effortless as this . yet the film , or the third act of it , also reminded me of a very different motion picture -- citizen kane , believe it or not . while stylistically the two masterpieces have little in common , both deal with a man , recently dead , who is being pieced together by those who knew him partially . they try to make sense of his actions without ever getting the full picture , while we , as the omniscent audience , do . they misunderstand his actions , and ascribe many to selfishness when they were actually exactly the opposite . ( often with kane the reverse is true . ) the only difference is while watanabe is fundamentally a sympathetic character , kane is not . also , kurosawa manages to tell his story without flashy technique or set pieces . ikiru also strangely foreshadows the life of a real japanese hero of the second part of the 20th century , yutaka katayama ( or `` mr. k , '' as he was called by many ) . katayama was the head of nissan motor 's west coast division in north america in the 1960s and 70s . he was brought to the task when nissan was a piddly carmaker of no consequence , especially in north america , which was then ruled by big , powerful ford and gm cars . though katayama was not motivated by the thought of his impending death , he was hard-working and wanted to succeed in america , which he did through steady , unflagging determination . but he also went against the grain of japanese business protocol , and encountered the wrath of his superiors in tokyo . ironically , the more successful he became , the more he was resented . ( his far less aggressive and successful counterpart on the east coast was more highly regarded by the japanese bosses . ) after establishing nissan as a major player in america , katayama was unceremoniously retired as superiors moved in and took credit for his work . he died in obscurity , but today mr. k is a revered figure at nissan , and was even used in an advertising campaign several years ago . executives now dislocate their jaws praising him . it all sounds too familiar . the second dvd has two features , a 90 minute documentary from kurosawa 's own production company about his working methods , wherein he discusses everything from writing scripts to editing the final product ; and a 40-minute feature about making ikiru , with cast and crew interviews . both docs are excellent and you will watch ikiru with more intelligence after you see them . there 's also the film 's trailer and a commentary track which i confess i have n't had time to listen to . it 's by stephen prince , author of the warrior 's camera : the cinema of akira kurosawa . criterion once again is the standard to which all dvd makers should be aspiring . the print , while scratched and battered a bit with age , is as good as we 're likely to see . it 's unfortunate that for many years kurosawa 's work was not better taken care of . like nissan 's mr. k , he was without honor in his own country , because he was considered `` too western '' in his outlook . like mr. k , his name now evokes nothing but praise in his homeland . fortunately , the work of this `` mr. k '' is finally being preserved . ikiru is a film you should investigate even if you 've never seen a japanese movie before , even if you 've never heard of akira kurosawa , even if you `` hate '' foreign or black and white films , even if you think you have no interest in the subject . because that subject is in fact very modern and universal , and you will quickly be swept away by the relevance of the story . ikiru is the very dictionary definition of the term `` timeless classic .