finally , a 14 episode set from funimation ! so looks like the guys at funi are going to release 14 episodes from season four in a two dvd special edition . looks like we get the following , and if you do n't believe me , go to the tmnt website for hard evidence . here 's what to expect acording to the press release from funi . episodes include still nobody , the ancient one , cyon of the shredder , prodigal son , outbreak , trouble with augie , tale of master yoshi , return of savanti parts 1 and 2 , adventures in turtle-sitting , good geens parts 1 and 2 , and as for that 14th episode , could be ninja tribunal or insane in the membrane . maybe they 'll go ahead with insane , and just include the tribunal episode in its own 14 episode release , if this one sells good , that is . i do n't see why they could n't up the ep content to 15 and just go ahead and give us both . but check the tmnt website for that press release if you 're interested . and looks like the price is pretty low too . an excelent buy . but your guess on that 14th ep is as good as mine , folks . maybe as the sept 12 release date draws nearer , someone can confirm the last episode we 're getting . oh and i forgot samurai tourists . maybe they 'll go ahead and give us insane in the membrane because it fits better in the story arc from season four . and hopefully , we 'll get ninja tribunal plus the 13 episodes that complete that arc at a later date . maybe by christmas ? i hope so , anyway . and do i really need to give a plot synopsis of the latter part of season four ? well , i think i will anyway . but if you 're lookin for spoilers , you wo n't find them here . leonardo is still filled with anger due to his defeat at the hands of shredder and karai last season . and after a few adventures in which he nearly loses control , splinter sends him to japan to find himself with the help of yoshi 's old master , the ancient one . but while leo is gone , a new shredder suddenly attacks the turtles , and leo must return home and do battle with this new foe . well , maybe not a new foe , but a foe with an attitude ajustment though . also in this portion of the season , slime from agent bishop 's alien creations which has seaped down into the sewers ( see aliens among us from vol . 3.7 : hun on the run ) has mutated several animals near the turtles ' home . its up to them to end this outbreak , but one of them is infected by one of the creatures , causing him to experience a second mutation into a mindless beast . now the turtles must make a deal with the devil , so to speak , in order to have their brother restored . agent bishop says he has a cure . but in order for bishop to administer it , our heros must steal a valuable object for him . they must invade the stronghold of the new shredder and steal the heart of tengu , but there are darker forces at work here . even bishop does n't comprehend the evil that will soon be unleashed upon the world . so save up your cash and get ready for this interesting dvd release in september !