two cute girls and a plan gone awry i justed watched samaritan girl tonight . this korean film , directed by kim ki-duk , features ji-min kwak as yeo-jin , a high school girl who runs a small prostitution business with her friend jae-young ( played by the cute as a button yeo-reum han , acting here under the name min-jeong seo , according to imdb . ) these two girls are best friends and seem to do everything together . to raise money so they can fly to europe , jae-young comes up with the prostitution idea . she sleeps with the clients and actually enjoys it , while yeo-jin makes the arrangements and keeps the money . things go bad one day when two cops follow jae-young up to her liaison in a motel , and attempting to escape , jumps from the window to her death . yeo-jin is distraught at the loss of her best friend and beset with guilt over having the money entrusted to her . to alleviate her conscience , she arranges liaisons with jae-young 's clients to give back the money . however , when her father , a cop on the vice squad , discovers what she 's up to , things take a dark turn for both himself and his daughter 's customers . this film seemed like several in one . it starts off as a story about the friendship of two school girls , turns into a tale of about guilt and redemption , and then turns into a story about revenge and a lack of communication . i 'd like to have seen more of the friendship ( with more screen time for yeo-reum han ) , and some things seem rather far-fetched , but it 's a thought provoking film and i liked it overall . the film is presented on dvd by tartan video and has one very serious flaw that i 've never seen before on disc : for the last ten or fifteen minutes , there 's a quite visible bar running vertically through the picture about a third of the way in from the left . it 's as though i was watching a broadcast with a weak signal . i could n't believe i was seeing such a thing . did anybody at tartan look at this transfer before committing it to disc ? i 'm thinking of writing them to say that , after seeing this , i must seriously question getting any more of their titles . otherwise , the film is presented at 1.78:1 , widescreen enhanced . the picture is okay but not great - kind of on the dark side , and certainly not among the sharpest that i 've seen . it is watchable , though . i listened to the dts soundtrack , but it sounded like a regular stereo soundtrack with no special audio effects . an interesting film , and i 'd like to see more by this director , but the transfer problem at the end is unforgiveable . ratings : film - 4 stars ; dvd transfer - 2 stars