a nice film by lasse hallström this review is for the criterion collection dvd edition of the film . `` my life as a dog '' known in sweden as `` mitt liv som hund '' is inarguably hallström 's best known foreign language film . though he has done other films they are american or british made . `` chocolat , '' `` what 's eating gilbert grape , '' and `` something to talk about . '' he is also very well known for directing the music videos for the world famous swedish pop group , abba . the film is about a 12 year old boy in 1950 's sweden . he is very rambunctious and when his mother falls ill , his antics prevent her from recovering , so he is sent to live with his uncle . he meets new people there and makes friends with the towspeople . he often compares his misfortunes with those worse off than he is . the film has some excelent scenes of the more rural areas sweden and some fine photography also . it remains a very popular film to this day and has recieved or been nominated for many awards . it won a golden globe for best foreign film and was nominated for best director by the ampas . though it is described by many people as a family film , it got a pg-13 rating in the us . mainly for nudity and sexual diaglogue . there is a half second of full frontal female nudity , though non-sexual , it still may be a cause for parental concern . the other scene involves material that i feel uncomfortable mentioning but parents are urged to watch the film themselves before letting their children see it . the special features on the criterion dvd include lasse hallström 's first film , `` ska vi gå hem till dej eller till mej eller var och en till sitt ? '' which translates to , `` shall we go to my place or your place or each go home alone ? '' this film has some explicit sex scenes and definately not appropriate for children . there is also a theatrical trailer and an interview with lasse hallström . the liner notes also include a special notation about the film by kurt vonnegut . fans of swedish cinema will enjoy this release