what only 7 discs ? ? ? ? ? make some room on your dvd shelf next to your yankeeographys because mlb productions have a hit on their hands . they answered the 2004 boston red sox box set with a yankee compilation that was second to none . while the red sox set included only the 2004 world series the yankees collection includes some of the greatest world series games of the joe torre era . the red sox set is guaranteed to last 86 years so it should keep the sox fans happy for a long time . this set includes five complete world series games , all of which are yankee victories of course . and if that was n't enough , in addition to the complete games there are two bonus disks . as exciting as the complete games are , unfortunately it does n't include john sterling and michael kay like the yes network yankee classics do . it does include the original national broadcasts , which has commentators that feature bob costas , joe buck , tim mccarver and joe morgan . the picture could n't be sharper and it does seem to be a full featured dvd as opposed to some past releases . the full games included 1996 game 4 which features jimmy leyritz leading the yanks back from a 6-0 deficit to a 8-6 extra inning triumph that tied the series at 2 all . the next game is another come from behind victory . the third game of the 1998 series features the bombers beating san diego ace reliever trevor hoffman . the third complete game is another game three , this one again against the braves that features a walk off homer by chad curtis . mariano rivera took a win this time around instead of his usual save . the forth complete game dvd is a game 5 series ender against the mets in 2000 , the first subway series since 1956 . the yankees won it in the top of the ninth on a single by super sub louie sojo . mike stanton got the win in relief of andy pettitte . the loss went to former yankee farmhand al leiter . the final complete game while a yankee victory is unusual in the fact that the yankees lost this series to the arizona diamondbacks . what made this game unique was that this was the 911-year and due to the suspension of baseball that year at midnight of that game it became november . it was the first baseball game played in november . and derek jeter homered in the bottom of the tenth thus becoming the first `` mr. november '' . the two bonus dvds are worth the price of admission on their own . they include all the mlb world series videos plus a plethora of bonus footage that includes roger `` rocket '' clemens 2000 alsc game 4 masterpiece . other inclusions are highlights from gooden 's no hitter , david cone 's and david well 's perfect games , jeter 's alds series saving flip , and many other highlights by names like david justice , jim leyritz , and paul o'neill . there is abundance of behind the scenes footage that includes locker room , interviews and press conferences and much , much more . the packaging is a trivia buffs delight as it is full of boxscores , highlights and facts . it will jar your memory reading the cases alone . these disks are a must have for yankee fans . as soon as i posted the banners i saw many of you pre order these fine dvds . so what are the rest of you waiting for ?