wonderful cd~unbelievable dvd ! listeners familiar with smile cd are aware that it 's brian wilson 's vindication as one of few genuine artists to emerge from popular music phenomenon called ( blues had a baby and they named it ... ) rock'n'roll . after transcending fun/fun/fun epoch of the beach boys ( perhaps america 's greatest touring group ) wilson 's pet sounds legend began.good vibrations promised emergence of stellar american composer to match copeland , gershwin and berstein.then came relatively brief era ( ars gratias guitarists ) of flash guitar soloists [ hendrix ; clapton ; beck ; page ; santana ; ending with knopfler~roger mcguinn -- like dylan -- remains poet minstrel , no mere axeman . ] where wilson 's work was dismissed as `` kid stuff '' .few musicians recognized brian wilson had transformed the recording studio into an instrument of '' infinite '' possiblity ; and had employed magnificent vocal and instrumental harmonic layering in radical fashion unappreciated and inimitable . ( with writers like van dyke parks he began constructing worthy lyric-literature . ) psychotic crash came.drugs ; intra-battles with dad , mike love & capital quenched the creative wick ; wilson seemed destined to remain beach `` boy '' para-gone . hints found in hymns like 'til i die brought a new legion of listeners and musicians ( the wondermints ) to the rescue.the rest is history.his wife melinda and men like darian sahanaja and jeffrey foskett brought brian & his music back to life culminating in smile . it 's experience to challenge listeners and reward all but the most close minded . in this dvd video even the skeptical can enjoy a performance of popular music to rival classical works of by-gone masters transcending `` the concert '' show as art.you do n't have to like it , but you must admire its verve and joyeous daring . reviewers have discussed the dvd package ; extras ; and techinical quality.unconvinced might recall observation by dylan regarding brian wilson 's deafness in one ear : `` he should donate the good one to the smithsonian . `` smile~dvd is triumph of musicianship , techno-artistry and heart.amidst dreck commonly applauded ( in lit . -- cf : da vinci code -- music ; film ; painting ) this `` road-not-taken '' of accessible , wondefully happy music is ars populi to make all but most jaded pseudos smile .