ripping , fantastic , classic satire ! 4.5 stars ! i recall first watching this movie with my ex-friend and i took a trip down the coast . i was n't really expecting much , pretty much just another slapstick , stupid comedy . but to be totally honest , this movie is really awesome ! `` hotshots , '' ought to have you rolling around the floor in some instances . but first , a look at the `` storyline . '' topper harley ( charlie sheen ) is the son of a famous air ace who died um ... tragically in an f-15 crash landing and a terrible mix-up regarding moose hunting season . he decides to follow in his father 's footsteps and become a flying wonder . this briefly sums up the main `` story , '' but there are many other smaller stories including that of pete 'dead meat ' thompson ( william o'leary ) and jim 'wash out ' pfaffenbach ( jon cryer ) who fights his own personal war against the terrible ailment of wall eye vision . that aside , topper harley must find out what really happened to his dad and help both his friends and himself to achieve their dreams , even if it goes to ridiculous proportions . you may think that this is a movie that merely takes the piss out of movies like `` top gun , '' `` full metal jacket , '' and `` kickboxer , '' but ... well , you 're right . but the satire is clever ( yet decidedly idiotic ) , and it certainly succeeds in making just about everything totally ridiculous . do n't expect realism , objectivenes and logic in this movie - that 's not the point of it . it 's there as a satire , and really is a classic satirical film of the 1990 's . the appeal of `` hotshots '' is the sheer stupidity and absurdity of many of the events that take place in the movie , and of course , if you 've watched the movies that are being ripped off , you 'll really laugh your head off . the best character has to be adm. thomas 'tug ' benson ( lloyd bridges ) . he performs the role of a supposedly `` hardened '' war-veteran and a man who has seen much conflict with great gusto . it just goes to show that some vets get more violent , others more angry , some sad - and benson just gets dumber . he 's even better in the sequel , which is surprisingly better than the original ( hence the reason why this only gets 4.5 stars . ) all in all , `` hotshots , '' is a moronic , silly , yet extremely funny and witty slapstick comedy . if you like monty python style humour or just love classic slapstick , this movie is undoubtedly for you . otherwise , if you like intelligent comedy , stay the hell away from `` hotshots . '' it 's not meant to be intelligent , so remember that . but at the end of it all , it 'll always be a classic slapstick , silly comedy ! buy it , rent it , steal it today