a true classic i remember overhearing a conversation that included my father and other men around his age talking about the movies they loved as young people . all of them agreed that one film was perhaps the greatest film of their youth : captains courageous . i think it 's easy to see why this is the case . the story may be old fashioned and this one time classic is hardly read anymore , but the story of young harvey cheyne coming of age aboard a gloucester fishing schooner has a way at tugging at the heart and if given the chance , people can change . on of the reasons the film works so well is the acting . depression era child star freddie bartholomew plays the incorrigible harvey . bartholomew plays the role with great skill . he 's miserable enough that we 're glad when he finally falls overboard , yet sympathetic enough that we are glad he does get rescued . the transformation is believable and by the films end , we begin to believe in harvey and even grow to like him . spencer tracy won an oscar as manuel , the portuguese fisherman who in some ways becomes the only true father figure harvey has ever known . today tracy would never get away with playing a portuguese fisherman with his irish looks and somewhat clumsy attempt at an accent , yet his skill in portraying his character is undisputed . lionel barrymore is perfectly cast as the old salt new england sea captain disko troop . mickey rooney is somewhat underused as the captain 's son dan . my guess is that if the film were made a few years later when rooney became a matinee idol , he would not be cast in such a small role or the role would be expanded . while a great cast carries the film , there are also smaller details that make the film powerful . the original sea shanties add a certain flavor . the special effects of the sea are magnificent for their time , and the sailing scenes are stupendous . this was no small feat in the 1930 's . the film certainly is a timeless classic . people who purchase this dvd will also love the bonus features ; trailers of the 1946 re-release , a short film the little maestro and a cartoon little bick cheeser .