a collection of films you 'll find nowhere else for the serious film history buff if i was getting a gift for tcm host and film historian robert osborne , and i knew he did n't already have this dvd set i would ( a ) be very surprised and ( b ) buy it for him . this dvd set is for film buffs who are n't satisfied with the essentials that everyone knows about - `` birth of a nation '' , `` the jazz singer '' , `` frankenstein '' , etc. , which are great films , but do n't tell the whole story of early cinema . the set was organized by bruce posner and runs to some nineteen hours , and is an astonishing achievement . the set consists of seven discs each of which explore a different aspect of early cinema . among the films included are douglass crockwell 's `` simple destiny abstractions '' , plus some animations with some very good detail on the level of windsor mccay . the 1928 version of `` the fall of the house of usher '' focuses more on displaying some complex optical work than the story , reducing poe 's tale to only ten minutes in length . `` night on bald mountain '' is an example of pinboard animation , in which a film is made completely using shadows from a pin screen . this technique continued to be used for decades . suspense - a 1913 melodrama in which a housewife and her baby are nearly attacked by a knife-wielding drifter - is included because of its split-screen techniques . however , it is also interesting as the beginnings of what became the psycho-thrillers that exist to this day . for the budget conscious , the disc entitled `` picturing a metropolis , new york city unveiled '' is the only disc available for individual purchase . this particular disc is great for history buffs as well as film buffs for all of its views of new york city life during the period from 1890-1940 . the new york city disc moves from early footage of the city , including the edison company 's famous and poetic coney island at night , to charles sheeler and paul strand 's well-known manhattan , to some work by rudy burckhardt , the film-maker , photographer , and painter who was also one of de kooning 's earliest friends in new york . there are also some films financed by the depression-era wpa . among them , elia kazan makes an appearance in a rather odd socialist movie about the poor of new york . there are some pictures sponsored by labor unions that offer 'alternative newsreels ' that expose illegal business thuggery and a reactionary murder cult known as the black legion . entertainment figures that are later blacklisted for their political beliefs and actions also make an appearance here - most notably , paul robeson , an actor often forgotten because of this . robeson can be seen narrating a film on organized labor in this collection . the disc entitled `` the beginnings of ciné-dance '' has quite a bit of variety , but is still clearly delimited , opening with annabelle moore 's `` butterfly dance '' and offering near its end david bradley 's peer gynt of 1941 , starring a teenage charlton heston . some of the best material on the set is from hollywood , probably due to the larger budgets involved . included in this category would be some of the original montages of slavko vorkapich that were done for some mgm movies . this includes a bit of film in which the entire napoleanic war appears to play out in just two minutes . also included is vorkapich 's opening montage to `` crime without passion '' in which three banshees fly about and terrorize the streets of manhattan . the ernst lubitsch `` touch '' also apparently includes montages , and there is an excerpt from 1926 's `` so this is paris '' that shows a flapper dance in montage . it does a good job of conveying the wildness of the place at that time , which is part of the central theme of the movie . also included are busby berkeley 's numbers `` lullaby of broadway '' and `` by a waterfall '' , which are light compared to the other pieces with their more hidden deeper meanings . i could go on forever describing the contents of this dvd set , but these were the pieces that stood out the most to me , anyway . the label of `` avant garde '' does not really fit this collection as we know the meaning of the term today . after all , there is work here by the edison company , d.w. griffith , and a host of other people who have secure places in mainstream motion picture history . the `` avant garde '' label is more of an indication that film as an artform during the time period covered was inherently avant-garde just because it was new . the quality of the video is quite good considering the probable shape of the originals . i personally love this set and think it is well worth the price