an excellent movie passion 's way movie is based on the novel `` the reef '' by edith wharton . the american novelist edith wharton spent most of her professional life in europe . `` the reef '' exemplifies her close observation of americans in france , their inner lives and social conflicts . on his way to france to see his beloved , the widowed anna leath ( outstanding perfomance by the always beautiful and talented sela ward ) , charles darrow ( timothy dalton-former james bond ) receives a telegram telling him not to come due to an `` unexpected obstacle . '' as time passes and he does n't receive an explanation for the delay , he experiences growing feelings of disappointment and humiliation . as he waits undetermined as to whether to go back to london or to press forward , he encounters sophy viner , a recently unemployed servant of a woman whose dinners he once attended . she is on her way to paris to look up old friends and to pursue a theatrical career . darrow , who feels sorry for himself and the loss he thinks he is about to suffer , finds himself manipulating sophy into staying with him to attend the theatre and finally into a short liaison . he is unaware that she has fallen in love with him and his kindness in her hour of uncertainty . four months later , anna leath eagerly anticipates darrow 's arrival . during the walk they had in the garden , anna expresses her love for charles . anna : `` i 'm not a naive young girl . i know ... of course i know ... but there are things a woman feels ... when what she knows does n't make any difference . it 's not that i want you to explain -- i mean about that particular evening . it 's only that i want you to know the whole of my feeling . i did n't know what it was till i saw you again . i never dreamed i should say such things to you ! '' charles : `` i never dreamed i should be here to hear you say them ! but now that you have said it ... . the only thing that matters is that we are here together and i want you to be my wife . '' anna is also excited because her stepson , owen leath , wants to do something that they know will upset his aristocratic , old-fashioned grandmother ; he wants to marry anna 's daughter 's governess , who is none other than sophy viner . darrow and sophy 's secret is safe with one another , yet darrow is faced by the uncomfortable fact that the ignorant anna wants him to support owen 's choice of a woman he knows to be unsuitable but whom he pities . he tries to convince sophy that owen is not right for her . `` you 'd rather i did n't marry any friend of yours , '' she says `` not as a question , but as a mere dispassionate statement of fact . '' she is a painful reminder that both of them have broken social conventions . this is a outsanding movie for people who appreciate understanding the complex nature of human behavior . the movie finishes with these lines : `` what i meant was that when you 've lived a little longer you 'll see what complex blunderers we all are : how we 're struck blind sometimes , and mad sometimes -- and then , when our sight and our senses come back , how we have to set to work , and build up , little by little , bit by bit , the precious things we 'd smashed to atoms without knowing it . life 's just a perpetual piecing together of broken bits . '' overall this movie is a truly outstanding movie with excellent performances .