another of those shows this is new , a boublil-schönberg show without a schönberg score , instead the music is by michel legrand . that does not seem to make much of a difference , however , as this seems to be the same overblown affair as les miz or miss saigon , though certainly prettier than the latter . there are a few very nice melodies , especially `` waiting '' and `` intoxication '' , which both julian ovendon ample opportunity to show off his pipes as armand . there are a few moments when he sounds similar to a young michael ball . ruthie henshall , on the other hand , who i usually like a lot , fails to be impressive on this recording . she sounds very mannered , especially so in `` china doll '' and `` the face i see '' . maybe the cd would come across as making more sense if a synopsis was included in the cd - now , the songs only give a very rough outline of marguerite 's downfall . another weird element is the bonus track which is a french demo featuring legrand , boublil , schönberg and marie zamora , for whom the show was originally intended . it lacks drive . will boublil and schönberg ever have a hit again ? who knows , but les miz was really pretty good so they might not be able to live up to that . ||| another of those shows this is new , a boublil-schonberg show without a schoenberg score , instead the music is by michel legrand . that does not seem to make much of a difference , however , as this seems to be the same overblown affair as miss saigon or les miz , though certainly prettier than the latter . there are a few very nice melodies , especially `` waiting '' and `` intoxication '' , which both julian ovendon ample opportunity to show off his pipes as armand . there are a few moments when he sounds similar to a young michael ball ruthie henshall , on the other hand , who i usually like a lot , fails to be impressive on this recording . she sounds very mannered , especially so in `` china doll '' and `` the face i see '' . maybe the cd would come across as making more sense if a synopsis was included in the cd - now , the songs only give a very rough outline of marguerite 's downfall . another weird element is the bonus track which is a french demo featuring legrand , boublil , schönberg and marie zamora , for whom the show was originally intended . it lacks drive . will boublil and schonberg ever have a hit again ? who knows , but les miz was really pretty good so they might not be able to live up to that .