something iced this earth never comes nun ist also endlich vom meiner absoluten lieblingsmetalband iced earth die framing armageddon cd erschienen . nach glorious burden und den demons & amp ; wizards ausflügen von jon schaffer war ich etwas gebremster erwartung . aber jetzt zur framing armageddon : covergestaltung und cd booklet sind wunderschön und wie üblich bei iced earth mit allen songtexten versehen . bei fa handelt es sich um ein konzeptalbum , welches an die something ... anschließen soll . grundsätzlich spicht nichts dagegen - ein herausragendes meisterwerk wie dark saga ist bis heute unerreicht . jon schaffer spielt zu 80 % lead , rhythm und bass gitarren alleine und arbeitet deshalb mit sequenzersoftware und multitracking recording . das hat zur folge das seine gitarrenfähigkeiten deutlich reduziert sind - es fehlen einfach die musiker um komplexere songstrukturen und arrangements zu erarbeiten . entsprechend sind die songs gestaltet - keine filigranen soli , die typischen tempi- und harmoniewechsel sind reduziert . dafür überstreibt es jon aber mit seinen staccatogehackten 64stel notenwerten massiv . die songs ähneln einander stark bis auf wenige ausnahmen . um diese probleme zu kaschieren , kleistert jon die songs mit massig zwischensequenzen zu und baut seine chorsoundteppiche und soundsamples ein , wo es nur geht . ripper owens : tims gesangliche qualitäten sind extraklasse und verdienen ein ganz dickes lob ! ! ! meiner meinung nach ist es ripper owens zu verdanken das fa nicht ganz im abseits steht . ich vermisse mat barlow nach wie vor , aber der ripper macht wirklich einen fantastischen job . ich habe framing armageddon bis heute ca . 30 x gehört , aber das ergebnis ist unverändert katastrophal . beste songs : tenthousand strong , a charge to keep . für alle metalfans , die iced earth noch nicht kennen , möchte ich gerne folgende meisterwerke zum reinhören empfehlen : iced earth ( same ) , night of the stormrider , burnt offerings , dark saga , die von jon recycelte 2cd version von days of purgatory , something wicked this way comes und der livemeilenstein alive in athens 3cd set . jon falls du das liest , sorry . gerne hätte ich eine positivere kritik geachrieben . nicht vergessen : ca . anfang 2008 soll von matthew barlow mit seiner neuen band pyramaze eine cd erscheinen ! ich bin mal gespannt , was daraus wird . metal will never die ! ! ! ||| iced earth something this never comes now , at last released from my absolute favorite metal band iced earth framing armageddon : the cd . after glorious burden and demons & wizards outings by jon schaffer i had somewhat slowed expectation . but now for framing armageddon : booklet cover design and cd are beautiful and equipped as usual with iced earth with all the lyrics . in fa is a concept album , which at the something ... want to join . basically anything other hand also beautiful - an outstanding masterpiece like dark saga is still unmatched . jon schaffer plays to 80 % lead , rhythm and bass guitars alone , and therefore works with multi-track recording and sequencing software . this has significantly reduced the effect that his guitar skills are - it simply lacks the musicians to produce more complex song structures and arrangements worked out . accordingly , the songs are designed - no intricate solos , the typical tempo and harmonic changes are reduced . therefore , it überstreibt jon but with its massive staccatogehackten 64th grade levels . the songs resemble each other strongly , with few exceptions . to conceal these problems , jon pasted the songs with massive cutscenes and is building a choir sound its carpets and sound samples , where it was possible . ripper owens : tim 's vocal qualities are first class and deserve a very warmly praised ! in my opinion , it is thanks to ripper owens , the fa has not quite caught offside . i miss matt barlow remains , but the ripper 's really a fantastic job . i have framing armageddon still about 30 x belongs , but the result remains catastrophic . best songs : tenthousand strong , a charge to keep . for all metal fans who would not know iced earth , i recommend the following masterpieces like to preview : iced earth ( same ) , night of the stormrider , burnt offerings , dark saga , by jon recycled 2cd version of days of purgatory , something wicked this way comes and the landmark live alive in athens 3cd set . jon if you read this , sorry . geachrieben i would have liked a more positive criticism . do not forget about due in early 2008 by matt barlow appear with his new band pyramaze a cd ! i 'm curious about what will happen . metal will never die !