lackluster there is nothing inherently wrong with this recording . it just feels so ... unnecessary . i admit i have not seen the movie yet so i might feel differently afterwards for it is always nice to have an aural document to listen to and remember the visuals . still , nice as much of the score might be , the performances here are able but not outstanding . i always dislike the dubbing of performers because i think it should be possible to find actors , even some with box-office power , who can sing well enough to be castable in a musical . it borders on the absurd , however , in the case of juanita hall , who won a tony for her portrayal of bloody mary in the original broadway production , was retained for the movie but dubbed by muriel smith . smith might even have the nicer voice but not by that much so hall could just have well sung her songs herself . giorgio tozzi dubbed rossano brazzi , bill lee dubbed john kerr , so one should be grateful that mitzi gaynor sang her songs herself , doing well but , again , without evoking the feeling that her versions are ones one could not do without . the fact that this recording makes do without dialogue actually helps in this case because nellie forbush comes across as less annoying - but the overall sound is very early soundtracky so i would really advise people to only buy this recording if they like any of the singers or love `` south pacific '' so much that they need every version . ||| lackluster there is nothing inherently wrong with this recording . it just feels so ... unnecessary . i admit i have not seen the movie yet so i might feel differently afterwards for it is always nice to have an aural document to listen to and remember the visuals . still , nice as much of the score might be , the performances here are able but not outstanding . i always dislike the dubbing of performers because i think it should be possible to find actors , even some with box-office power , who can sing well enough to be castable into a musical . it borders on the absurd , however , in the case of juanita hall , who won a tony for her portrayal of bloody mary in the original broadway production , was retained for the movie but dubbed by muriel smith . smith might even have the nicer voice but not by that much reverb could just as well have sung her songs herself . giorgio tozzi dubbed rossano brazzi , john kerr , bill lee dubbed , so one should be grateful that mitzi gaynor sang her songs herself , doing well but , again , without evoking the feeling that her versions are ones one could not do without . the fact that this recording makes do without dialogue actually helps in this case because nellie forbush comes across as less annoying - but the overall sound is very early soundtracky so i would really advise people to only buy this recording if they like any of the singers or love `` south pacific '' so much that they need every version .