heavy metal in seiner reinsten form ! im jahre 1984 veröffentlichtem manowar , ein brilliantes , pures heavy metal album namen `` hail to england '' , im selben jahr erschien auch `` sign of the hammer '' , das ebenfalls nur gute songs aufweisst . blood of my enemies : ein eingängiger gitarrensound und ein mächtiger kampfschrei eric adams eröffnen das erste lied der scheibe . majestätisch setzt adams hier seine stimme in szene , alles begleitet von riffigen gitarren und harten drums . spätestens nach einsatz des refrains fühlt man hier etwas magisches , das ist der spirit des heavy metals ! each dawn i die : trommeln ertönen als der zweite song ertönt . der gesang ist hier hasserfüllter als im opener , und im refrain hört man einen kraftvollen scram von eric . dieses lied trift vor hass und ist neben hatred das dunkelste der band . wenn man einmal den liedtext liest wird einem dies noch stärker bewusst . kill with power : boooaahh , was für ein teil ! es beginnt mit immer schneller werdenden drums bis ein einheitlicher rythmus gefunden wird und eric gleich zu anfang seine heftigen screams unter beweiß stellt . der refrain räumt jeden zweifel aus dem weg ! hierbei handelt es sich um pure power . live kommt das lied noch besser , wenn das pubilkum die worte `` die , die ! '' zurück schleudert fängt die halle zu beben und die menge an zu toben ! hail to england : ein klassiker mit übelstem hymnencharakter , der die gründung manowars zum teil dokumentiert . `` on english ground we were born ... '' gesang , gitarren , drums und bass alles ist perfekt in eineander abgestimmt , sodass sich eine wunderbare atmosphäre einstellt . das album trägt den selben namen , jedoch ist hail to england noch lange nicht das highlight der scheibe ! army of immortals : dieses lied wurde geschrieben für alle fans , ihre loyalität , ihre treue und ihre leidenschafft für manowar . ich habe noch nie zuvor eine band erlebt die ihre fans dermaßen in ihr musik mit einbeziehen wie die kings . ein solch eindrucksvolles und zugleich kraftvolles lied schaffen nur manowar . wenn der refrain ertönt , erfüllt sich mein herz mit stolz , dieses lied ist der `` liebesbeweis '' an die fans . `` you wait in the rain , you walk through the snow , we give you our blood , we want you to know , in our eyes youžre immortal , in our hearts you live forever more ! '' black arrows : `` like each note i now play , be a black arrow of death , send straight to the hearts of all those who play false metal ! '' mein großen respekt hier an joey demaio , dieses piccolo-bass-solo ist einfach der hammer . hier zeigt joey das er sein handwerk versteht und das mehr als perfekt ! andere basssolos sind z.b string of the bublebee , williams tale oder my spirit lives on . bridge of death : dieser song ist das absolute highlight der platte ! es geht hier um eine geschichte , die `` dantes inferno '' sehr ähneld . die macht des dunkelen wird hier herauf beschworen und entlädt sich in jeder zeile von eric . dieser song ist einer der genialsten den joey demaio je geschrieben hat . alle stimmt hier . der rythmus wird eingeleitet von einem von erics screams . ein brillantes gitarrensolo im mittel part ertönt und eine verzerrte demonenstimme , begleitet von tobenden drums und gitarren spricht in apokaliptischer stimmlage . einer der besten songs ever ! ||| heavy metal in its purest form ! in 1984 , both published manowar , name a brilliant , pure heavy metal album `` hail to england '' , in the same year , `` sign of the hammer '' was published , aufweisst also the only good songs . blood of my enemies : a catchy guitar sound and a powerful battle cry eric adams opened the first song of the disc . majestic adams uses his voice in this scene , all accompanied by reefy guitars and hard drums . at the latest after use of the chorus feels a little magic here , that is the spirit of heavy metal ! each dawn i die : drums sounded as the second song is played . the singing here is as hateful in the opener , and in the chorus you hear a powerful scram by eric . this song drift with hatred and is in addition hatred is the darkest of the band . once you read the lyrics is one hand this is even more aware . kill with power : boooaahh what a part ! it starts found with ever more rapid rhythm of drums to a single , and eric is right at the beginning of his violent screams is under serious proof . the chorus recognizes any doubt of the way ! this is pure power . live is the song even better if the pubilkum the words `` die , die ! '' previous hurls the hall begins to tremble and roar of the crowd to ! hail to england : a classic hymn with evil character , including the formation manowar partially documented . `` on english ground we were born ... '' vocals , guitars , drums and bass , everything is perfectly matched in eineander , so that sets a wonderful atmosphere . the album bears the same name , but hail to england is still not the highlight of the disc ! army of immortals : this song was written for all the fans , their loyalty , their loyalty and their leidenschafft for manowar . i 've never seen a band that their fans so as to include in their music with the kings . such an impressive and powerful song at the same time create only manowar . when you hear the refrain , filled my heart with pride , this song is the `` proof of love '' to the fans . `` you wait in the rain , you walk through the snow , we give you our blood , we want you to know , in our eyes youŽre immortal in our hearts you live forever more ! `` black arrows '' like each note i now play , be a black arrow of death , send straight to the hearts of all those who play false metal ! `` my great respect here at joey demaio , this piccolo bass solo is just the hammer . here , joey shows he knows his job and more than perfect ! other bass solos are as string of the bublebee , williams tale and my spirit lives on . `` bridge of death : this song is the highlight of the record ! it is about a story that `` dante 's inferno '' very ähneld . the power of darkness is here and evoked discharges in each line of eric . this song is the one who wrote the most brilliant demaio ever . everyone here agrees . the rhythm is initiated by one of eric 's screams . a brilliant guitar solo in the middle part is played , and a distorted demonenstimme , accompanied by drums and raging guitars speaks apokaliptischer voice . one of the best songs ever !