bat out of hell meat loaf 's erstes eigenes album `` bat out of hell '' gehört mit mehr als 30 mio . verkauften exemplaren zu den drei erfolgreichsten musikalben aller zeiten und ist zudem das erfolgreichste debut-album aller zeiten . und das , obwohl die musik auf diesem album alles andere als dem mainstream von damals entsprach ( es ist 1977 erschienen ) , da gerade discomusik im kommen war . die von mastermind jim steinman geschriebenen songs sind an bombast kaum zu übertreffen , lediglich der 1993 erschienene nachfolger `` bat..2 '' ist ebenso bombastisch und gut . auffällig ist die enorme soundkulisse , die eine einfache band mit einer hand voll musikern einfach nicht zustande bringen kann . doch nun zu den songs : 1 . bat out of hell der bombastischste rocksong aller zeiten ! ( 5/5 ) 2 . you took the wordsright out of my mouth ( hot summer night ) radiotauglicher als `` bat out of hell '' , aber immer noch episch und mitreissend ( 5/5 ) 3 . heaven can wait sehr schöne , ruhige ballade , die zwar etwas zum kitsch neigt aber dennoch einfach wunderschön ist ( 5/5 ) 4 . all revved up with no place to go ein rockig-bluesiger song , der weniger bombastisch und untypisch für dieses album und meat loaf allgemein ist ( 4/5 ) 5 . two out of three ai n't bad eine sehr einfühlsam gesungene ballade , wieder mit großartiger orchestraler musik untermalt ( 5/5 ) 6 . paradise by the dashboard light einer der bekanntesten meat-loaf-songs und der lovesong schlechthin . ( 5/5 ) 7 . for crying out loud großes orchester , eine großartige stimme : meat loaf 's bombastischste ballade , vor allem gegen ende des stücks ( 5/5 ) ||| bat out of hell meat loaf 's debut album `` bat out of hell '' is one of more than 30 million copies sold to the three successful music albums of all time and is also the most successful debut album of all time . and although the music on this album is anything but the mainstream of the time ( in 1977 it appeared in line ) , as disco music was just coming . written by jim steinman , the mastermind of songs are hard to surpass in bombast , just published the 1993 follow-up `` bat .. 2 '' is as bombastic and well . what is striking is the enormous soundscape in which a simple band with a handful of musicians just can not get done . now for the songs : 1 bat out of hell , the bombastic rock song of all time ! ( 5 / 5 ) 2. you took the words right out of my mouth ( hot summer night ) radiotauglicher as `` bat out of hell '' , but still epic , stirring and ( 5 / 5 ) 3. heaven can wait very nice , quiet ballad , which somewhat kitsch , but still tends to be just beautiful ( 5 / 5 ) 4. all revved up with no place to go a rocking-bluesy song , the less bombastic and atypical of this album and meat loaf is generally ( 4 / 5 ) 5. two out of three is not bad a very sensitively sung ballad , again with great orchestral music ( accompanied 5 / 5 ) 6. paradise by the dashboard light one of the most famous meat loaf songs and the lovesong general . ( 5 / 5 ) 7. for crying out loud large orchestra , a great voice , meat loaf 's bombastic ballad , especially towards the end of the piece ( 5 / 5 )