milk it . if you must . der ausverkauf geht weiter . erst die tagebücher , dann eine best-of und als krönung das lang angekündigte box-set . `` he 's the one who likes all the pretty songs - and he likes to sing along - and he likes to shoot his gun . but he knows not what it means , knows not what it means and i say aahh. '' . ( in bloom ) ja , kurt hätte bestimmt geschrien , wenn er miterlebt hätte wie nirvana ausgeschlachtet werden . nur eine weitere rockband , mit der sich viel geld verdienen läßt und die die welt nicht verbessert hat . oder doch ? trotzdem lohnt es sich dieses box-set zu kaufen ! die songs sind roh , manche gräßlich schlecht . minderwertigkeitskomplexe , unschlüssigkeit , selbsthaß und depressionen ziehen sich durch zahlreiche songs . und dann ist da dieser ganz besondere reiz , der von cobain und seiner band ausging . dieses , schwer in worte zu fassende , faszinierende , erfrischende , aufmüpfige , energiegeladene , ironische , lebensbejahende , das auch nevermind so großartig gemacht hat . kurt cobain war so viel mehr als nur depressiv ! `` he was an amazing artist ... completely original . the best art draws you into its own world , so kurt built his own world . '' ( krist novoselic ) ein sehr hübsches booklet mit zahlreichen fotos und einem kurzen essay von sonic youths thurston moore , sowie die edle verpackung fallen positiv auf . die dvd in heimvideo-qualität bietet ebenso wie die , ursprünglich sicher nicht für die veröffentlichung bestimmten songs dieses box-sets , den eindruck , daß man ganz exklusiv hinter die kulissen von nirvana blicken darf . with the lights out ist ein schönes geschenk für nirvana fans . im gegensatz zum unplugged-album und erst recht zum meisterwerk nevermind '' aber absolut kein muß . anspieltipps : i hate myself and i want to die , they hung him on a cross , even in his youth ||| milk it . if you must . the selloff continues . only the diaries , then a best-of , crowned by the long-promised box set . `` he 's the one who likes all the pretty songs - and he likes to sing along - and he likes to shoot his gun . but he knows not what it means , knows not what it means and i say aahh.. ( in bloom ) yes , kurt had intended screamed if he had seen as nirvana to be exploited . just another rock band , with which can make a lot of money and the world has not improved . or do you ? nevertheless it is worth buying this box set too ! the songs are crude , some horribly bad . inferiority , indecision , self-hatred and depression run through several songs . and then there is this very special attraction exerted by cobain and his band . this has made things more difficult to grasp in words , fascinating , refreshing , sassy , energetic , ironic , life-affirming , nevermind the so great . kurt cobain was so much more than just depressed ! `` he was an amazing artist ... completely original . the best art draws you into its own world , says kurt built his own world . '' ( krist novoselic ) a very nice booklet with numerous photos and a short essay by sonic youths thurston moore , and the sophisticated packaging subject to positive . the dvd of home video quality , just like the originally certainly not for the publication of certain songs , this box set , the impression that they totally exclusive look behind the scenes of nirvana . with the lights out is a nice gift for nirvana fans . in contrast to the unplugged album and certainly a masterpiece nevermind `` but absolutely not a must . anspieltipps : i hate myself and i want to die , they hung him on a cross , even in his youth