another step forward for the mighty sepultura ! dante xxi what a fantastic album ! a huge achievement by a band that continues to produce excellent music despite a huge amount of criticism from fans of cavalera-era sepultura . it 's surprising that people ca n't get over the fact that max cavalera left a whole decade ago . since then sep have moved on and i doubt they would have made dante xxi had max still been at the helm . frankly , bands should be applauded for pushing the boundaries of themselves and their fans . if you follow a band , it 's sometimes worth having a little faith in them , i feel . i guess we fall in love with a band after hearing a couple of albums and that those albums become the band . but the band themselves have a totally different perspective ! the music they produce is a product of the dynamics of the members of the band , their abilities , relative strengths , experience , musical preferences etcetera . all of these factors can change over time ; indeed should change over time . hence , aspects of sep 's music have changed also . how sad would it be to say that sepultura had learnt nothing new in the last 10 years ? that their music had been influenced by nothing that has happened to them ? why would anyone want them to keep copying the sound of their earlier work ? would you really want sepultura to just regurgitate arise and chaos ad tracks ? would n't that just put them on a par with bands like status quo ? how utterly tragic that would be . when playing live , they play a huge number of older songs because they know we want to hear them too . so , if you want older stuff , do n't expect it on a new album - go see them live . they 're better live than on a disc any day ! dante xxi is certainly more consistently thrashy than their other post-cavalera output . ( so , if you 've been missing that aspect of sepultura : here it is ! ) green 's vocals are awesome ; there are terrific riffs and fantastic rhythm . it 's hard to pick a favourite , but if pressed , i 'd recommend you listen to 'fighting on ' - and turn it up very loud ! with dante xxi , sepultura continue to successfully broaden the musical boundaries of both themselves and their fans . so , set aside your preconceptions and give this album a good listen - you 'll love it .