just a stunning collection of great songs if someone were to rush up to me and hold a gun to my hand and insist that i recommend one and only one jesus & mary chain album to someone completely unfamiliar with their music with the proviso that it be the album that would bring that person the most enjoyment , i would be in a complete quandary ( though why some insane person would be wielding a pistol in such a nutty undertaking i wo n't speculate about ) . on the one hand , psychocandy is unquestionably their masterpiece , not merely a great album , but one of the great precursors of the emergence of alternative music in the nineties . yeah , alternative went pop when nirvana hit it big with nevermind in 1991 , but the jesus & mary chain had already copped all the right attitudes and struck all the right chords with psychocandy in 1985 . with that album they go down with the velvet underground , television , and big star as bands that wield an influence vastly in excess of their collective record sales . but as great as psychocandy is , i 'm not sure that 21 singles : 1984-1998 does n't have better songs . the collection of singles pulls together not merely the very best songs off psychocandy , but a host of great songs off other albums that either were n't as good or were n't very good at all , but nonetheless had a couple of great individual cuts . for instance , back when i was collecting jesus & mary chain discs , i stopped with psychocandy , darklands , and barbed wire kisses , two albums and an anthology . this means that i missed out on some really great cuts that are collected here . for instance , i was completely blown away by `` head on '' the first second i heard it , but because i did n't get automatic , it was completely new to me . same thing is true of `` blues from a gun , '' the very scary `` reverence , '' `` sometimes always '' ( with guest lead vocal by hope sandoval of mazzy star ) , and the wonderful pair of cuts from munki , `` i love rock n roll '' and `` i hate rock n roll . '' these are just great songs , and they really make me regret that i stopped my collecting of their music when i did . so , i truly hope gun-toting maniacs stay away from me , but if saner , more everyday folk want who are unacquainted with one of the great bands of the eighties and nineties want to dive into their music , i would strongly recommend both psychocandy and 21 singles : 1984-1998 . this music is as crucial as anything that arose during the period