... ... ... cosmic i guess `` bible of dreams '' , juno reactor 's bold foray into territory beyond their techno days , contains the best sounds . aw , who am i kidding ? it 's the greatest album in the history of the universe ! ! ! 1 ) jardin de cecile - 4/5 . you might call it boring ; i call it moody . this is not the standard `` calm & slow '' sound of juno reactor -- in other words , it 's not a droning , monotonous pile of neverending bull . this one actually has character , which is maybe not as evident in the first couple of minutes as it is later . we get some atmospheric , echoing notes that have a nice , dreamy quality to them . after a while , percussion joins in , along with this weird `` sweeping '' noise that pops in every few seconds . about five minutes in , the song undergoes a complete change of style and transforms to heavy percussion and a little synth . a nice intro that gives you a taste of things to come . it 's like the pov of someone gradually waking up and joining the traffic jam of everyday life . while stoned . 2 ) conga fury - 4/5 . you may have heard this in `` the animatrix '' or `` mortal kombat : annihilation '' ( so sorry for mentioning that movie ) . it starts off with a lone female voice whose harmonizing is soon joined by jungle drums and synth . it continues on with the drums and the synth and the voice until it quiets down and ends the same way it began . and what 's really funny is the male voice that kicks in at two minutes . it 's somewhat weird and out of place , but it 's so hilarious that i can forgive watkins . `` huela ! huela ! libalalibalalibalalibala ... '' or whatever he 's saying . 3 ) god is god - 5/5 . it 's funny . when i first heard `` pistolero '' , i thought that no other juno reactor song could ever be as good or better . kids today , eh ? whatever melancholy quietude existed in the first two songs is completely gone here . we 've left the jungle and entered the desert , and does it deliver . do n't be fooled by the spacy sound at the beginning -- that soon gives way to a crazy beat with chanting and all the instruments you 'd expect in the middle eastern culture . there are also sound clips apparently taken from `` the ten commandments '' , which are weird at first and then as cool as the rest of the song . sure , it 's repetitive , but the main tune is way awesome , and as long as we have that ... repetition matters not , grasshopper . 4 ) komit - 4/5 . not bad at all . a remix of this was heard early on in `` the matrix reloaded '' , and i must admit , i liked it better there . it begins with a series of notes that give one a sense of flying through the calm night air . i would 've liked to hear these notes become more prominent , but alas , only in `` reloaded '' . here , they stay in the background and let the juno percussion take over . the song just gets bizarre at times , although the grungy tunes are worth it . that 's about all . overall , this is a more organic version of something you 'd hear in `` transmissions '' . 5 ) swamp thing - 4/5 . ah , looks like they 're tackling heavy metal . this starts off grungy and gritty , and does n't let up until it 's over . the usual percussion kicks in , and sticks with a sinister tempo for a while . when we hear the guitar solos at approximately 3:30 , it seems kinda belated and anticlimactic , especially since they do n't go much further than that ; we slip right back to the percussion . i 'm only giving this a 4 because it 's rather catchy . 6 ) kaguya hime - 5/5 . this can be compared to `` swamp thing '' , but it takes itself a lot less seriously . it 's got a similar setup and form : percussion accompanied by minimal synth . about forty seconds in , we 're introduced to a very playful beat that sounds like the work of hollow drums played by chopsticks . or something like that . midway through , the drums `` mature '' into a heavier-sounding variety , with some more synth playing alongside than before . it 's still playful , though . in fact , this is a very fun song to listen to if you do n't mind a drum being the primary instrument . reminds me of the final segment of `` jardin '' . i 'm only giving this a 5 because it 's supremely catchy . 7 ) children of the night - 5/5 . and now for something completely different . while the previous six have different styles , one can tell that they 're all juno reactor works . with this , it might be a little more difficult . at least for me . on the platter is a tune that sounds evil yet fun . shall we say ... giddy . it 's very , very giddy . you can imagine an evil force approaching to kill you , but messing with your mind first by sneaking up on you from multiple directions , or filling your mind with images from your worst nightmares . it is giddy . there 's not a lot of ways to describe it . giddiness all around . `` the children of the night are call-eeng ... hehehehe ... hehehehe ... '' accompanied by the sound of puppies allegedly whimpering before their horrible , gas-filled deaths . brrr . did i mention it 's giddy ? 8 ) shark - 4/5 . i know , i know , it 's `` calm & slow '' . but it 's also not monotonous . if you have n't figured out from the title , this conveys an underwater feeling to the listener . it 's very mellow and trancy , and in some parts , definitely reminiscent of vangelis ' opening score for `` blade runner '' . it 's down-time for the entire song , although there is a rough patch that 's supposed to resemble a tectonic plate breaking apart or something . ruins the calmness , i think . the length is another problem ; it 's over nine-and-a-half minutes long . when a song does n't have a lot of musical variety , you might wan na shorten it . on the plus side , featured here are a bunch of trippy sound effects that sound underwater-ish , but i do n't really know why . without these sounds , this song is what you 'd hear at one of those big aquarium display shows . with the sounds , it 's ... well ... juno reactor at its calm & slow finest . 9 ) high energy protons ( orion mix ) - 5/5 . i 'm fully aware it 's a remix . i 'm fully suspicious of the guys for being lazy . but that does n't stop the `` bible '' finale from ruling . to make it easier for you , i 'll just assume that you 've already listened to the original version in `` transmissions '' . and by `` easier for you '' , i mean `` easier for myself '' . some of the techno sound is still here , but the background choir holds much more presence . furthermore , there 's the addition of a few synth riffs that add another dimension to the whole thing . however , i still like the original mix better . do n't ask why . and if you 're wondering about the dialogue clips , they 've dropped `` you 're going to have a wonderful trip . '' all we 've got here is `` you 're the brain and central nervous system '' , `` high energy protons spilling over into our atmosphere '' , and `` everything 's going extremely well . '' ( yes ! hal-9000 ! ! !