new wave dance classic : a must have what would have happened if ian curtis had not pulled the plug on his own life ? it is a hard question to ask since i am a very devoted joy division fan but i also am a good fan of new order . i have to say that i imagine joy division might have recorded one ore two more albums and broken up : new order may have never been . so while it is tragic that curtis committed suicide it gave the way for the rest of joy division the license to effectively reinvent themselves as new order . the band is very different from jd but in `` power , corruption lies '' , new order 's first , we hear a hint of jd with a burst of new creativity that must have been the results of a painful and cathartic period . the music on this album is more heavily synth and drum based than any of the jd material though maybe not as much as later new order work . by 1983 synths and drum machines were just coming into their own and this year saw the invention of the midi interface for synths etc . it was also a time when the new wave movement was finally getting solidified . all history aside , the album is great : it is upbeat , full of poppy dance tracks and a real new wave classic . if you are buying the album just for `` blue monday '' ( a track so good even a horrible band like orgy could make a hit out of it ) you are in for a real surprise . you will find many of the other tracks to be great as well . `` age of consent '' is among my other favorites . this is another great track for dancing . also `` the village '' is a great track as well . if you are going to buy two new order albums get this one and substance . although they share a few tracks they are both great . i find that this album get far more play though . this is a must have for the new order fan of course . but also fans of new wave/'80 's music and joy division fans alike should also buy this one . this album has received so much acclaim and has been so influential in its 20-year life span that it should be a must have for any modern music fan . i highly recommend it ! -- ted murena