you must own . now . if forced to pick one band that best exemplified the indie-rock aesthetic , one would be hard-pressed to find a better choice than big black . many of the acts typically credited with bringing alternative music to the mainstream have , for better or worse , been little more than angry pop acts ( nirvana and nine inch nails being prominent examples ) , and even many more underground acts such as pixies , sonic youth , and the jesus lizard released some material that was palatable to the mainstream , as their major-label runs attest . big black , on the other hand , was the real deal , a band that lived out the indie philosophy in both their music and in their resolutely do-it-yourself business practices , and paid the commercial price for it . songs about f***ing was the perfect distillation of leader steve albini 's philosophy : an abrasive , confrontational album that contained no concessions to the mainstream and no pretensions to socially redeeming value . this is music at its most twisted and evil , acknowledging no taboos as it challenged listeners to take or leave its assaultive sound and unpleasant lyrical content . the key to the lasting appeal of this release lies largely in its simplicity . like fellow pioneering noise-merchants godflesh , big black distilled rock music to its most basic elements : guitar , bass , and drum machine . in spite of this minimal approach , however , songs about f***ing is hardly palatable or unchallenging . what emerges from this combination of rock 's traditional elements is a barrage of scathing , disembowling noise that pummels eardrums with a mix of astringent guitar squalls and pulsating industrial beasts . and of course , it 's all topped off with the demented vocal stylings of albini himself , making kurt cobain sound like mel torme as he howled and screamed his tales of depravity . mixing metal , punk , and the then-burgeoning genre of industrial with reckless abandon , songs about f***ing constitutes a musical roller coaster of frightening proportions , and wraps things up in barely half an hour . the basslines and drum programming of bad penny and colombian necktie are enough to crack skulls , while albini 's vocals legitimately bring to mind a man in the midst of a nervous breakdown . l-dopa is all punkish speed and aggression but infinitely more frightening , and the proto-industrial rage of precious thing and kasimir n. pulaski day would send trent reznor up a tree . even when the band slows down , as on kitty empire , the results are clenched , sinister , and intense . tiny , king of the jews ( love that title ) actually manages to be somewhat atmospheric , but it still relies heavily on that mix of disconcerting guitar noise and pulsating beats . i 've listened to pretty much every noted act in the extreme-music world , from slayer to godflesh to meshuggah , and big black may have been the scariest of all . and songs about f***ing in an unqualified triumph , one that oozes menace and integrity at the same time . own it , or pose