the primal scream , courtesy of steve albini . first off , consider the packaging . the title songs about f -- king rendered in loving bold , and cover art that puts all `` shock rockers '' ( that means you , marilyn manson ) in their place . that alone makes it worth adding to your collection . too bad this was the band 's last release . leave it to steve to break a band up just as they were attracting an audience . big black is pure nihilism in audio form . a young steve albini ( pre-shellac and before he was reduced to producing bush albums ) backed by a constantly pulsing drum machine named roland and furiously feedback-driven guitar noise while ranting his stories of midwest depravity and illness with an almost infectious glee . this is what happens when kraftwerk goes to hell ( they even cover that german duo 's the model here ) , or when a bunch of angry , drunk , baseball bat-wielding nerds start playing new wave while setting a trailer park on fire . though there have been faster bands , heavier bands , nobody has ever sounded so gritty and hateful as these guys do . ah.. enough hyperbole . so , why only four stars ( actually 4.5 ) ? well , there 's nothing as great as previous albums ' steelworker , bad houses , kerosene , or jordan , minnesota -- songs that are so definitive of big black 's style . however , there are plenty of songs that come awful close : the poppy yet deliciously evil bad penny ( `` i think i f -- ked your girlfriend once , maybe twice , i do n't remember '' ) , the demented almost-surf rock of columbian necktie , the eerie proto-industrial grind of kitty empire , the vicious fish fry , and the lovely free-floating hostility of tiny , king of the jews . also notable is a cover of cheap trick 's he 's a whore that strips away the innuendo and leaves just the grimy sleaze . essential music for the misanthrope in all of us . also recommended highly are fellow touch & go outfits the jesus lizard and albini 's later `` supergroup '' rapeman .