smart sounds for the new millenium there seems little point to classifying this music . when standard tunes from the american songbook and jazz idioms such as swing and bebop spark little to no recognition among the general public , music that could once be called `` experimental '' or `` avant garde '' necessarily defines the modern mainstream . if there are similarities with early landmark recordings ( e.g . miles davis ' 70s fusion groups ) , `` lawn chair society '' would definitely qualify as the less raw and extemporaneous , more polished and civil descendant of its once-controversial forebears . aside from electronics and musical synthesis , three qualities in particular stand out about this music : composition is emphasized above improvisation ; creativity and craftsmanship count for more than interpretation and invention ( both of which require a standard repertoire ) ; tonal colors , dynamics and humor receive the kind of attention they enjoyed with duke ellington , before the `` bebop revolution . '' lest any listeners require the `` jazz '' label to enjoy this music , kenny werner has called on the a team for this multifarious collection of tone poems and programmatic pieces . the trumpet of dave douglas and bass clarinet of chris potter descend on `` lo 's garden '' like a busy , darting pair of humming birds ( joined at the hip , naturally ) . soon a more vegetative pace is established by scott colley 's firmly grounded bass while brian blade 's percussion alternates between following movement at the sub-particle and quantum-field levels . meanwhile , werner 's keyboards paint patterns in waves of sound , moving from prepared piano to phased fender wahs , with a dab of string synth for highlighting . `` burble_burble_spleek '' is as onomatopoeic as the title -- wind chimes , telephone rings and douglas playing some of the most vocalized ( and intestinal ) trumpet sounds this side of clark terry and rex stewart . `` uncovered heart , '' a calming guitar-like ballad in e major , is soon followed by the ambitious title number -- a collage of funked-up chatter , vocalized demagoguery by each horn player , some thoughtful discourse by werner on piano , a ghostly dirge-like refrain intoned by unison horns , and finally the faint sounds of birds and hunters ( certainly not a reference to a familiar white house-halliburton figure ? ) . closure comes not with a bang but with `` loss , '' essentially a richly-textured chorale by synthesized strings , followed by `` kothbiro , '' an extended peaceful incantation based on a simple african melody . in conclusion , if `` kind of blue '' and bill evans ' vanguard sessions are in your blood , this one is unlikely to replace either one . all the same , it 's well-conceived , smartly-executed , cutting-edge mixed-genre jazz