iron maiden 's last great album for twelve years iron maiden 's seventh studio album fittingly called seventh son of a seventh son was released in april of 1988 . the album was the band ; s first new studio album in nearly two years and would be their last with guitarist adrian smith until his return on 2000 's brave new world ( not coincidentally it was also their last masterpiece for twelve years as well ) . smith plus lead singer bruce dickinson , bass player steve harris , guitarist dave murray and drummer nicko mcbrain made certain that adrian 's last album with maiden for over a decade was also arguably the band 's best album as i found out when i got the capitol record cassette version in may of 1988 and later the remastered cd . seventh son of a seventh son was maiden 's first concept album about a cursed child who is born with special powers and it tempted by the side of both good and evil . also , the band was starting to become more progressive sounding as their music was reminiscent to that of elp , genesis , pink floyd and so forth with the tempo changes and lyric-wise . we begin the album with moonchild which begins as an acoustic passage giving this album 's theme and then it builds into a superb rocker penned by smith and dickinson . next is the superb infinite dreams penned by harris and was a great progressive rocker alternating between quiet and heavy and light and dark sections . next was the album 's biggest hit can i play with madness penned by smith/harris/dickinson which sounded reminiscent to the previous album , 1986 's somewhere in time 's biggest hit , wasted years . next is the evil that men do also penned by harris/smith/dickinson and is another stellar rocker . this song was always one of my favorites . the album 's second half begins with the epic length title cut ! like the 13 plus minute rime of the ancient mariner and 9 minute alexander the great before it , it is the longest and best track on the album . unlike those two aforementioned epics , the harris penned title cut was the band 's first 10 minute track which they created the story themselves . wonderful musicianship throughout , especially murray and smith 's guitar duels at the end which is an awesome piece of music . the prophecy is next and is a great track penned by murray/harris and ends with a superb acoustic guitar section . next is the album 's third single the clairvoyant which is another great rocker . we end the album with arguably one of maiden 's best album closers only the good die young . this harris/dickinson penned piece is a killer rocker . then when you think the album ended after the big finish , the album ends with a reprise of the acoustic passage that started moonchild . seventh son of a seventh son was another top 20 charting us million seller and it was because the material was strong , the production was killer and because it was iron maiden ! recommended