`` hank penny '' it 's time to pay him his dues ! back in the 40 's and 50 's ( even the 30 's going back to milton brown and bob ) western swing was in a class all it 's own . either you loved it or not , in most cases there was no inbetween . bob wills and the texas playboys swore to great fame as did bob 's steel player leon . milton brown who started it all would of ruled the roost if not for his early death in the late 30 's . spade cooley was a real favorite even had a tv show and at one time was bigger then them all except he ended up doing time for a murder rap . he was the first to coin the phrase `` western swing '' . over the years there were many others like curly williams , tex williams , elton brittand pee wee king to name a few.but when i want to hear some of the finest swing music from who i believe to be the greastest western swing song writer as well as artist there is only one choice , '' hank penny and his radio cowboys '' . hank is about the most under rated country and western artist ever to go on the stage . his music is second to none and his lyrics can stop a coon in it 's tracks ! if you want to really get the best music that hank ever put out it is essential to get this cd '' crazy rhytm '' along with his 2cd set `` king of hillbilly bebop '' . both of these sets will open a whole new world of western swing to any listener . if you never heard of hank penny or heard his music you are in for a treat . his lead female singer was the great jaye p. morgan who had great fame in the 50 's and 60 's as a crooner . i admit that this music is not for everyone and i would bet that only about 10 % of todays so called country music enthusiasts will apperciate this goldmine of classics . hits like `` flamin'mamie '' and `` peroxide blond '' are some of the best `` hillbilly '' music that will ever be recorded . `` wide open spaces '' and `` little red wagon '' are classics that only hank could pull off.this is the real thing if your love of music is like mine ( my wife has adopted `` western swing '' as one of her favorite sounds also ) . again please keep in mind if your idea of country music is watching some half baked , half naked , b-girl , bimbo on a perverted modern video that they now show on tv singing worthless songs that sound no more country then perry como , but just like pop hits from the 70 's then this classic music ai n't for you , believe me it ai n't . if your idea of enjoying music is sitting back and listening to ernest tubb singing `` i 'm like driftwood on the river of regret '' then i 'm certain you will dig hank ! `` enjoy '' joe kopec