fans of paul or gerry or sax in jazz will enjoy this reissue & quot ; two of a mind & quot ; is a studio-only project from the summer of 1962 . desmond had done a record led by gerry several years prior , and it was mulligan 's turn to play with paul on a project he would control . because of heavy workloads , the two principals collaborated in three separate sessions during june , july and august in new york . also due to scheduling difficulties , the rhythm section changed at each session . on the six tunes which made the original lp , there are three different bassists and two different drummers . also on the six lp selections , desmond did a little studio trickery : some of the improvised solos were put together from different sessions , and on one tune he overdubbed a third saxophone for one verse . if you did n't know this , however , you 'd never guess it . the counterpoint improvs of gerry on baritone and paul on alto are consistently interesting . overall the disc is more uptempo than desmond 's other work as a leader . the product lacks that special magic which can often be found on a good recording by a quartet which plays live together and often , but it is a subtle loss . this reissue adds five bonus tracks , including two with guitarist jim hall which did not make desmond 's final list for lp inclusion , but which are quite nice . the two leads are highly skilled , and they seemed to like each other a lot and to bring out good things for one another . not desmond 's best work by a long shot , nor mulligan 's , but worth owning if you are partial to either man . i 'm glad bmg is doing these bluebird first edition releases from the rca vaults . the booklets are usually quite good . they come in cardboard cases instead of jewel cases , and i 'm not sure if i like that or not yet . maybe they could knock a dollar or two off the price and be an even better value , but if , like me , you enjoy the classic jazz of the 1946-'66 generation , you should buy some of these reissues to encourage the company to keep them coming