my personal favorite pixies release it seems like when it comes to the pixies , the talk is generally `` surfer rosa this '' and `` doolittle that , '' and while those are certainly good albums i 've never figured out why bossanova got so much less attention than its two predecessors . with the exception of trompe le monde ( which i plan on getting around to eventually , i swear ) i 've heard pretty much the pixies ' whole output , and out of of everything this album keeps me coming back the most often . bossanova turns down the noise assaults from the pixies ' earlier career down just a bit , but in their place is a more arty , spacey effort that throws some heavy surf-rock influence into the band 's already wide-ranging sound . sure , there may not be anything that completely matches the sheer visceral immediacy of broken face or tame , but for track-by-track excellence and diversity bossanova is difficult if not impossible to top . after the blistering , hard-rocking instrumental opener cecilia ann sets the tone , bossanova immediately commences careening all over the musical map in a way the legions of alternative imitators that emerged in the 90 's would n't even dream of . with black francis screaming his head off at full volume , the angry , assaultive rock music sounds like debaser on steroids , but from there the album takes a turn into more diverse and overall compelling territory that sounds little like previous albums . songs constantly veer off in unpredictable directions , making bossanova more of an acquired taste than its predecessors , but it 's one more than worth acquiring . this album represents the pixies ' peak as musicians ( at least to that point ) ; the rawer edges from surfer rosa and doolittle had definitely been toned down , but those albums did n't contain anything quite like the complex , talking heads-like rhythms of dig for fire or the dense , proto-grunge sheets of guitar noise of down to the well . the pixies ' legendary use of dynamics was also honed to perfection here : just check out the way the whiplash guitars kick in at the perfect time in the soaring , etheral velouria , or the way black francis 's eery vocals and kim deal 's crawling bassline give way to the headbanging chorus of is she weird . all over the world is one of the strangest things the pixies ever did , a sprawling epic ( by pixies standards , anyway ) filled with spacey lyrics and searing lead guitar lines from joey santiago that seem to come out of nowhere . and is that a falsetto black francis is doing with his voice ? well , yeah , most of the time , but it works perfectly for the song 's trippy , drug-like feel . even when they 're plowing ahead at full speed , as on allison and hang wire , the band 's more tuneful , surf-rock direction is apparent , but it 's even more evident on pleasant , literally pacific tracks like ana and the closing havalina . my enduring favorite from this album , though , would have to be happening . it does n't start off all that unusually for a pixies song , with black francis screaming his bizarrely imagistic lyrics on top of some slashing guitars and atomic bass riffs , but over its running time it just gets progressively eerier and more demented , with lots of surfy breaks popping up in the mix , culminating in black francis 's stream-of-consciousness , half-spoken-half-sung mantra as the song fades out . it 's a total classic , just like this album , and essential listening for those who want to hear alternative rock from back when the label meant something