if you have even a passing interest in ambient music ... . for an artist that has helped shape the musical map since the 70 's , and remained a sterling producer , and also has a album workrate to put most musicians to shame , it 's truly surprising that brian eno , has so many absolutely essential albums to his name . here we concentrate on the period where he created/produced a series of defining 'ambient ' albums in the mid-late 70 's , that although not the first to produce ambient albums , mastered the form to such a degree , that some 20-30 years on , these albums are frequently referenced , when discussing the genre . although as much an electronic album as it is an ambient album , the mood here is one of detached sounds , restrained instruments and a slightly eerie , and atmospheric solitude . using a system of two reel-to-reel tape recorders , and making the ( relatively ) simple process of layering sounds on top of one another , eno was able to make stark simple sounds , from such instruments as ... keyboard , synth , organ , but layer them in such a way that although the music rarely changes direction , it 's beauty comes in the form of its simplicity . the first track ... the epic `` discreet music '' is really nothing more than a melancholic & slight sounding relaxation drone . but its what eno does with the sound and the use of spacial sound , that truly makes this impressive . brief compositions of synth are gradually brought in and out of the mix , and although most listeners wo n't realise it on the first listen , but the relation of these elements changes over time , albeit it very gradually , and coupled with the subtle use of noise and resonance , it reveals a sound of soothing 'ambience ' that washes over the listener . the `` three variations on the canon in d major '' is more consistent with the stylisation of 'classical ' music , with it less akin to 'ambient ' music , and more in keeping with the compositional elegance and arrangement of piano led orchestration . which has a rather melancholy and restless feel to it , and the tone of the strings/piano feels vastly different to the synth-led first track , and its arguably the more immediate track , due to its more noticeable increase in volume/tempo , and although a more rounded sound , still remains very delicate and gentle . in fact imagine these beautifully crafted tracks as works for soundtracks for films that were never filmed , as it 's deeply beguiling and littered with the romanticism that became a trademark in eno 's series of 'ambient ' albums . as it 's all so precisely performed and tremendously realised , that one ca n't help but fall in love with this incredible album . if you picked up any of eno 's other 'ambient ' albums , i really ca n't stress enough , how utterly recommended this album comes , it 's not only considered one of his finest 'ambient ' albums , but also just a truly exceptional album regardless of the genre . utterly essentia