fully developed canterbury sound this excellent 1975 album shows hatfield & the north adopting a full blown canterbury rock sound - a nice mixture of quirky prog and jazz rock . although folks refer to a canterbury style before 1975 ( i include myself here too ) , the bands lumped under the canterbury style pre-1975 were incredibly disparate and utilized a broad spectrum of musical styles . the henry cow ( experimental ) - caravan ( pop prog ) continuum comes to mind in fact . it was not until the mid-1970s however , that a distinct canterbury sound emerged ( quirky , proggy , jazz rock ) and this album is a superb example . the core lineup includes a virtual who 's who of canterbury rock : phil miller ( guitars ) ; drummer pip pyle ; richard sinclair ( vocals , bass guitar ) ; and dave stewart ( hammond organ , electric piano , tone generator . the additional musicians are also among the canterbury luminaries and include jimmy hastings ( flute , soparano and tenor saxophone ) ; mont campbell ( french horn ) ; lindsay cooper ( oboe and bassoon ) ; tim hodgkinson ( clarinet ) , and finally the northettes ( barbara gaskin , amanda parsons , and ann rosenthal ) . all of the musicians are absolutely top shelf and the individual performances are breathtaking . the ensemble work is also very intricate and there are some fairly dexterous meter shifts . i feel that richard sinclair 's vocals ( and bass playing ) are both excellent and it is always a treat to hear him perform whether with caravan , hatfield & the north , or camel . the nine tracks on the album are arranged into two largish suites , including tracks 1-8 and the massive 20'13 mumps suite . as i mentioned , although progressive rock is the dominant style , there is a good bit of jazz rock . in fact , there may be slightly more jazz rock than was found on the 1974 debut . there is also the whimsical canterburian sense of humor - i think this is also a distinctive feature of the canterbury `` thing '' . greater emphasis is placed on instrumental sections and lengthy `` jams '' are scattered across the album , where dave and phil really get a chance to shine . the northettes also add a very nice , dreamy touch to each piece , and the woodwind playing , ( especially jimmy 's flute work ) , heighten this effect . there are also brief experimental sections too - the last few minutes of fitter stoke has a bath is a good example of this . overall , although i do n't feel that rotter 's club is much different than the debut , some folks might notice a bit of more of a jazz rock approach . the bonus tracks include alternate takes of big john wayne socks psychology on the jaw and chaos at the greasy spoon , in addition to the extremely jazzy track halfway between heaven and earth , the thunderous ( it is unbelievably heavy ) oh , len 's nature ! , and the once again very jazz-rocky lying and gracing ( it sounds live but there is no indication of where it was recorded ) . these last three tracks are superb . all in all , this is an excellent hatfield & the north album and is highly recommended along with the 1973 debut