underappreciated and deserving reevaluation . queensryche was never a band to sit still -- from their early metal roots on their first couple releases , the band began blending elements of progressive rock and other influences into their sound until `` promised land '' . in many ways a pinnacle acheivement in the band 's history , it would have been extremely difficult to equal . the album was well constructed , an acheivement of arranging and sound , and while it was unpopular with a number of the band 's fans ( who would have preferred a straight metal sound ) , it was certainly a unique statement . many bands would have been tempted to try for a sequel in sound and feel , others would have tried to get even more over the top , still even more would be likely to retreat backwards , to rejoin the metal sounds of their youth . queensryche did something quite different . `` hear in the now frontier '' is a stripped done , bare record . gone are the swirling arrangements , the extra instruments , keyboards , synths , samples , layered vocal harmonies , etc . instead , straightforward riffing , blistering leads , and a looseness bleed forth , as though the band had been listening to what the other locals in seattle were doing . when i first heard the record , i hated it ( even as a fan of the grunge movement that in many ways inspired it ) , but there was enough decent material to keep me coming back to it . these days i love it . in truth , i think it represents guitarist chris degarmo 's waning interest in metal -- he exited the band shortly after and ended up playing guitar with jerry cantrell for a while , and his stamp is all over this -- 12 of the 13 cuts on the record were written or cowritten by him , and the best material ( that which looks back as little as possible ) was soley from his voice . from opener `` sign of the times '' , with its sludgy rhythm guitars and wobbly lead , its clear this is something different . the best material on the record tends to be the less heavy work -- from the laid back ballad `` some people fly '' to swirling love song `` you '' to the brilliant and soporific `` hero '' . degarmo even takes the mic from vocalist geoff tate on great love song `` all i want '' , and while some of the heavier and more abstract material also works well ( `` saved '' , the bizarre fan-favorite `` sp00l '' ) , its really an album that excels in the midtempo pieces . the remaster is further augmented with b-side `` chasing blue sky '' ( a relatively uninteresting piece ) and three recordings from the mtv unplugged show several years beforehand -- `` silent lucidity '' and `` i will remember '' get decent readings , but its really `` the killing words '' that is noteworthy -- its a fantastic and delicate performance of a great song . it does n't sound like old queensryche , but that 's what i love about the band . they 'd reach higher heights , but there 's an awful lot of great material on here that deserves listening . careful and patient listening will yield rewards