wonderfully balanced between spring and winter this is an excellent cd with the wonderful music of rampal 's flute and laskine 's harp , a perfect and unique match . whereas the cd contains many beautiful works , there are three that are sublime and deserve mention . `` nambu ushioi uta '' a japanese folksong is a unique work as the sad willow melody is pierced by sharp flute interruptions , like an obstinate sparrow continually breaking the silence of melancholy . the piece tip-toes like an elegant silk veil floating on a branch over a night garden . with its broken pacing , the melodies remain sad and reflective , but always interrupted by the pesty bird chirp , like a crocus on a dark mid-winter morning . `` defune '' , a mature echoing ghosty melody builds a sad journey of experience and time . i would listen to this song over and over , allowing it to release any grief that i harbored . there is a lilting passage that builds and allows the harp to mirror or reflect the building lilting passage established by the flute . then the piece moves toward a resolution of quite contemplation . the cd ends with `` sakura sakura '' which rampal and laskine play for all it is worth , starting with a minimal slow paced introduction of the melody which is no sooner established than is rendered with a pastoral interpretation of the classic tune . and as the flute wavers like a songbird , a triump of music begins to build and anchors the central presentation of the work . now having established and adorned this rich tapestry , rampal and laskine begin pulling every golden and silver thread from this whole cloth to integrate minimal repetitions of the central melody finally offered to us in atonal windstorms and durges , retaining its uncanny beauty , made even more beautiful by the lack of perfection , the final sour note . this cd is superb in that it balances the 3 tragic pieces i describe above with 8 other works of more gaity and light . i predict that this will be one of your favorite cds for years to come