expensive for 32 minutes to begin with , whatever else one might say about this album , it has to be acknowledged that the import price for this disc , considering that it is only 32 minutes long , makes it a somewhat overpriced ep . meanwhile , this somewhat forgotten quasi-gem from alice sits comfortably between the new wave / post-hollywood production of `` flush the fashion '' and his most strongly novelty-influenced album , `` zipper catches skin '' . generally , there 's a stripped down sensibility musically , and less purely goofy lyrics . partly , this is due to the opening `` who do you think we are , '' which presents a rather oblique look , perhaps , at special forces . the music is very stripped down -- no , extremely stripped down compared to `` welcome to my nightmare '' or `` goes to hell '' or all of his later metal albums -- it 's as if alice is getting in touch with his inner garage here . vocally , alice provides his usual range of dark sneers , wide-eyed irony , and generally witty lyrics . certainly a promising start . `` seven & seven is '' ( a cover ) rattles along continuously with a snare drum , with jangly distortion guitars , occasional electronic flourishes , and alice pretty much resorting to straight-up growly voice throughout . hard though not to like an energetic song that declares , `` oom beh beh oom beh beh yea . '' `` prettiest cop on the block , '' as the name suggests is a transvestite policeman tale . definitely shot through with machismo , this is no limp-wristed rendition . `` i got a stiff reputation with a stick like a rock . my kids are confused , and my wife is in shock . '' the vocals are the growls as previously -- the i've-been-drinking-and-smoking-too-much gravel kind of voice . the music is a bit uninspired , particularly the drums . the novelty of the song wears out in fairly short order . `` do n't talk old to me '' manages to vary things musically , finally . a fairly deft combination of kind of heavy-handed guitar and lyrics set next to a chorus that features keyboards and a number of layered dialoguing vocal lines . the lyrics , of course , have a certain cleverness as an adult obviously complains about being told to give up all his toys , such as guns and cars . there are more musical details and variation in this song than the previous ones -- the particular combination of comedy and seriousness here is pretty convincing . `` generation landslide `81 '' is a reprise of the lyrically excellent tune from `` billion dollar babies '' ( the tune , in fact , that gives us the phrase `` billion dollar babies '' ) . a military-march style snare kicks along , as simple guitar chords back up alice 's cultural rant , and adds a verse or two to the original . one of the effects of this song is to point out some of the less inspired aspects of the rest of the disc , but that does n't mean one is n't glad for it being here . energetic , socially incisive alice . `` you want it , you got it '' let 's out alice 's inner used car salesman , as he vocally sleazes his way through this either brilliant send up of the worst of new wave music , or a rather unfortunate example of it . cheesy keyboards and ham-fisted drum machine , many years later this song sounds so dated that it almost ceases to be dated . if this song really tickles your fancy , then `` zipper catches skin '' will be a treasure trove for you as this is definitely a prequel of that album to come . harmless cheese , one may not expect `` cute '' from alice , but here you are . `` you look good in rags '' returns to a more traditional rock ensemble , guitar lead and all . this workaday rocker never really quite stands up , even with the semi-barbershop acapella section of `` rags rag rags '' toward the end , clipping scissors effect and all . the non-stellarness of it does not mean that it 's hopelessly boring . it 's kind of good , harmless fun -- it 's just , one does n't expect this sort of thing from alice . `` you 're a movie '' is a ridiculous cheeky monologue by a would be heroic general type . the music is thoroughly 80s , guitar tone and gacky keyboards all . and , in fact , the chorus that chants , `` you 're a movie '' is completely dead and unspirited . so what makes this pure novelty song ever-fresh , ever-delightful and really very funny are alice 's intercut remarks . they say that in comedy timing is everything , and alice shows that he 's got it in spades here . technically a pretty awful song , one can not help digging the wily wit alice puts out . the last track , `` vicious rumours '' provides that obligatory alice song about public perception . the vocals here draw out the snideness more . one wishes ( throughout the album ) that the drums were set back more in the mix , and the guitars brought forward , but there 's more energy in this particular rocker than most of the rest of the album . so , overall one can hardly recommend this album without qualifications , especially if you are getting here by way of his first band , or by his later work , like `` brutal planet '' . as a kind of essay in cheese , and sheer low-fi production goofiness -- and particularly of a sound that is glued immovably to the 80s -- then you might enjoy this . again , the import price is awfully steep for such a short disc . a used copy seems a better way to go .