riding the reggae rails home & away : norrisman has been around for quite a while , basically since the mid-nineties - enough time to put out a couple of albums as well as several bucketloads of singles - but never really made waves away from jamaican shores until last year 's appropriately titled home & away . ray stephens ' easy listening flames rhythm provided the backdrop for this passionate , pleading love song ( as well as richie spice 's super earth alert , and morgan heritage 's lush in a ghetto ) , which met with respectable international success , and now heads up this latest long player from the uk 's greensleeves label . greensleeves are obviously giving the artist a well-deserved push here , with glossy packaging and great liner photos featuring norrisman trodding the train yards with a guitar strapped across his back like a jamaican woody guthrie , or something . it 's a classy package for sure , and without a doubt , it 's a classy record too . the familiar title track leads off , and is matched and even bettered by great cuts like seh dem bad , i 'm a free man , the ganja lover 's herbs to your nerve , and the bubbling armageddon on . the reliable lutan fyah ( another recent greensleeves mover with his excellent phantom war album ) shows up for the decent combination tune , after all , but other than that , it 's all norrisman all the way , and to his credit , he carries it off without so much as a misstep . most of the production credit goes to byron murray and his in the streetz outfit , and the backup is bright and lively throughout , with a very tangible - and very welcome - old school one-drop vibe . the only real detour is the delly ranks-produced move hard on the red bull & guinness rhythm , which just shows that norrisman is as comfortable up at the edge of the bump as he is with the roots and lovers material . home & away is a very strong release , and along with phantom war , one of the best rootswise long players of the year so far . next up on the roots release schedule is mr . perfect 's debut , giddimani . look out for this one - it could be another contender !