randy in the wintertime i 've been a randy newman fan `` ever since there wuz no randy newman , '' and so picture my delight when my very own kids bought me this boxed bonanza for christmas ( so i would n't have to ) . randy newman on the stereo on christmas morning is about as newmanesque a way to disturb the warmth of home and hearth as you can imagine . at one time or another i 've owned every newman album ever recorded , so i needed this collection like another hole in the head , but i have to recommend it as much for the surprisingly revealing biographical data as for the song selections . there are surprises here for even an old newman trivialist like myself , and it was a relief to read of randy 's hardships as well as successes , since the dark side of this dark soul has too often been danced around in past articles and interviews . we learn that randy 's father , irving newman , md , was an overbearing and cantankerous coot not above slugging it out with perfect strangers on public highways . we learn that the distracting eye condition randy was born with , and the failed surgical attempt to correct it , may have helped to mold not only newman 's unique world view , but his discomfort with public attention . interviewers ( myself included ) have generally conceded that `` randy newman just ca n't look you in the eye , '' but then , why should he when he has such a gift for cutting straight to the heart with his nostalgic sentiments and shark-attack wit . of the many selections in this package , my standouts are his 1962 demo golden gridiron boy , a delight to hear at long last since throughout newman 's career it has appeared as nothing more than a musical history anecdote . turns out it is a quite competent version of that idiotic pop sub-genre of the '50s and early '60s when unrequited love burned teenybopping hearts alive to the accompanyment of snickering female vocal backups . then comes jesus in the summertime , the highly unlikely mock spirtual that has the distinction of having been so offensive to so many ears that a session musician actually walked out of the studio rather than play on it . now that 's chutzpah ! personally , i like it , and find nothing offensive about it , other than the fact that it has the name jesus in the title . finally , there 's laugh and be happy , an unfortunately incomplete demo that features newman at his tin-pan-alley best , with a catchy ragtime riff and a delightfully mocking lyric . this number is for my money one of the best tracks ever laid down by one of our most consistently rewarding , if challenging , singer-songwriters . thanks for the memories , randy !