a timely celebration of a `` double '' 50-year anniversary . a half century ago , i was a junior in high school . we used to have these gatherings called `` assemblies , '' where the principal would collect the entire student body in the auditorium ( no excuses allowed ! ) for an event of more than passing importance . at this late date , i can only remember a small handful of them : the coronation of queen elizabeth ii , president truman relieving general macarthur of his command . oh , and one where two fellows from ampex came to our high school to give a little demonstration of something called `` stereophonic sound , '' using , needless to say , an ampex tape recorder . and the music for this demonstration ? it was the brief opening prologue ( `` sunrise '' ) from richard strauss 's `` also sprach zarathustra , '' in this very same reiner/chicago symphony orchestra recording . this was a `` sneak preview to end all sneak previews , '' inasmuch as the monophonic lp ( `` new orthophonic , '' i believe it was called ) had n't even been released at that early date . and , needless to say , this impressionable teenager was suitably impressed . so much so that , in the years to come , i acquired three lps of the performance : the original monophonic lp , then the living stereo lp a few years later , and eventually , when the stereo lp had seen its better days , the dynagroove rerelease ( something i 'd just as soon forget ) . i never did go the reel-to-reel route , and , when cds eventually made their appearance , i opted for other performances of these two strauss works rather than the earlier conventional living stereo cd release . but i always did have fond memories of that particular reel-to-reel tape demonstration back in '54 ; it was a direct copy of the 30ips master tape , and not the 7.5ips `` consumer '' version that came out shortly thereafter . with bmg now releasing half-century-old living stereo classics as hybrid sacds ( 10 at present , with surely more on the way ) , it was easy for me to select this recording as one of the first to sample . i was more than pleasantly surprised ; just listening to the `` also sprach zarathustra '' prologue had the effect of turning the clock back 50 years ; truly a trip down memory lane ! in a phrase , i was n't disappointed . even listening to the conventional cd layer , it was easy to get the sense that there i was again , listening to the 30ips master tape . even with headphones , i heard no evidence of tape hiss ; just beautifully balanced stereo sound with a tremendous sense of not only left-to-right spatial array but depth as well . ( this is particularly evident in `` the hero 's battlefield '' segment of `` ein heldenleben , '' where the initial muted trumpet fanfares sound as if they are coming from well behind the orchestra . ) throughout both massive tone poems , the music is well-served by rca 's `` minimalistic '' microphoning , with just two mikes picking up the sound field , and every single instrumental voice ( and there are many of them ) can clearly be heard . ( sir thomas beecham , that evergreen source of bon mots , reserved one of his best for `` ein heldenleben '' when he wrote that `` i once spent a couple of days in a train with a german friend . we amused ourselves by discovering how many notes we could take out of 'ein heldenleben ' and leave the music essentially intact . by the time we finished we had taken out fifteen thousand . '' ) as for reiner 's interpretations , perhaps the simplest way of putting it is that there is no time in the last half century that i can recall when these two performances were not included in every `` essential recordings '' discography ( even when the sound quality was not as it is here , in the hybrid sacd release ) . reiner had a way of not oversentimentalizing these two works , as if they had been the products of one of the world 's greatest egos , which , in fact , they were : strauss made no bones about himself being the hero of `` ein heldenleben . '' reiner keeps things moving along , lest they bog down for the empty rhetoric that they can often be in lesser hands . a century ago , when strauss had been the most famous composer who was also a conductor and gustav mahler had been the most famous conductor who was also a composer , audiences could n't get enough of the strauss tone poems . ( i think , in fact , that the record will show that mahler conducted strauss 's tone poems more frequently than he did his own symphonies ! ) and a half-century ago , when i had been in my musical adolescence , so to speak , i too could n't get enough of them . but they have n't worn all that well in the intervening years . now , considerably older and modestly wiser , i can only take them in infrequent doses . ( perhaps i 've simply taken strauss at his word when he described himself as `` a first-rate second-rate composer . '' ) and , fortunately for this now-jaded me , these reiner performances , long perfect in everything but sound quality , have arrived with , finally , sound quality that matches the performances . i have every expectation that future `` essential recordings '' discographies will continue to include these performances , now with this newly-refurbished sound quality that is the match of any . bob zeidle