very atmospheric soundtrack with some heavier moments this 1972 soundtrack for the barbet schroeder film `` la vallee '' was recorded during two , one-week sessions , between which a tour of japan was sandwiched . interestingly , the album works as a cohesive whole , in spite of the short recording time , and the `` dry '' production ( especially on nick mason 's drums ) lends the album a very tight feel . it has been written that obscured by clouds is the last true group effort and i pretty much agree . the album also finds the band poised on the cusp of massive , global superstardom , which would become fully realized with the mega-smash , mega-million selling album the dark side of the moon ( 1973 ) . lyrically , roger waters begins to reflect on issues that he would develop further , including his war-victim father ( free four ) and dave gilmour refers to science fiction with childhoods end , which is the title of arthur c. clarke 's classic from the genre . i guess it is worth noting that childhood 's end was recorded without the final verse and that roger would write all lyrics for the group following this album , thus `` relieving '' dave of this responsibility . dave 's vocals are also excellent and he really comes across as a confident singer . his guitar playing is also in top flight too . in addition to tracks with lyrics , there are quite a few instrumentals as well . musically , i think pink floyd was in fine form on this album . my favorite cuts include the atmospheric , vcs3 synthesizer heavy instrumental tracks obscured by clouds , mudmen , and absolutely curtains ( loads of rick wright 's sustained hammond organ ) , along with the heavy instrumental when you 're in . burning bridges , wot 's ... uh the deal , and stay are also superb and feature the trademark drifting and spacey floyd sound . at the opposite end of the spectrum is the thunderous the gold it 's in the ... , which reminds me somewhat of the bone-crushing nile song ( from more , 1969 ) . free four is the only bouncy and lighthearted track on the album , which stands in stark contrast with water 's dark subject matter - the ruminations of someone on their deathbed . with respect to this 1994 remaster it is just ok and features good sound quality , images from the film , and all lyrics . all in all , this excellent album is a personal favorite and is very highly recommended along with atom heart mother ( 1970 ) , meddle ( 1971 ) , wish you were here ( 1975 ) , and animals ( 1977 ) .