lennon crafts a thoroughly enjoyable beatle 's sounding record this has always been my favorite john lennon album because the production is fantastic and the songwriting is ecclectic and creative ... i also believe that this is probably the most consistent post solo-beatle release because of all fab four post solo recordings , the album 's production is flawless ... in 1973 , lennon told rolling stone that he had really enjoyed paul 's band on the run because he felt it was conceptual ... thus , i 've entertained the possibility that this album is in part , a response to band on the run because it displays conceptualism and ecclectisism . like band on the run , walls and bridges displays the beatles ' unique ability to go from beautiful lush ballads to rocking rockers ... at times , i feel like i 'm listening to the white album ... .the pentatonic 'going down on love ' tracks to the up-tempo , brisk , jazzy 'whatever gets you thru the night ' ... then , there 's the soft harry nilson assisted number 'old dirt road ' ... then john immidiately answers this mellow country song with 'what you got ' ( which feels kind of like 'everybody 's got something to hide except for me and my monkey ' ) and so on ... it has been suggested that john 's ' # 9 dream ' was a subconscious tribute to george ... i love this album because i feel that john is in harmony with his other beatle compatriots and that he 's no longer bitter with his past like he was on plastic ono band.. 'surprise surprise ' with elton john even has a quotation from a beatle 's song ... see if you can guess what it is ... ! ! ! this is the first post beatles album that really really sounds like something the beatles would have been truly worthy of producing ( unlike band on the run that although was a milestone for paul only sustained mediocre production ! ! ! ) this is also a fun album and along with all things must pass and tug of war , it stands as the best produced post beatles recording.. if you 're a beatle 's fan but think that there was n't any good solo beatle 's album ... . sit down on a quiet sunday evening with a friend or two in front of a fire with some hot cocoa , sit back , and enjoy a great album ! !