deeply devout music from our greatest christian composer this disc contains three works by russian-tatar composer sofia gubaidulina , an artist of deep religious sentiment as is apparent in these titles : `` in croce '' , `` silenzio '' , and `` sieben worte '' . the common instruments in these works are the cello and the bayan . the latter is a type of russian accordian played here by elsbeth moser , who performed in the western premier of `` sieben worte '' and to whom gubaidulina dedicated `` silenzio . '' cello is played by maria kliegel , who has performed under the approval of rostropovich . `` in croce '' was originally written in 1979 as a piece for organ and cello , but it is represented here in a 1991 arrangement for cello and bayan by elsbeth moser which gubaidulina has approved . it is an exploration of `` vertical '' music ( the organ or bayan ) intersected by the `` horizontal '' ( cello ) , thus forming the cruciform symbolism so common in gubaidulina 's work . personally , i prefer the performance of the cello and organ version by ivashkin and hicks released by chandos , for the organ just seems to work better than the bayan . still , kliegel 's cello work here is deeply moving and worth hearing , less restrained than ivashkin 's but perhaps more passionately religious . `` silenzio '' is a fragile , insubstantial piece for bayan , violin , and cello in which the vast majority of the work is played pianissimo . it consists of five `` miniatures '' which all maintain the same rhythmic proportion 7-2-5 in varying ways . it is an interesting experiment , but it results in the least interesting item on this disc , and it 's technical brilliance comes at the expense of religious power . `` sieben worte ( seven words ) '' for cello , bayan , and strings , is a crucial piece in this disc , and in gubaidulina 's oeuvre in general . i have said before that the composer 's `` johannes-passion '' may be the greatest work of christian piety of our time , but `` sieben worte '' follows not very long behind . it is an acknowledgement of the tradition of religious composition , and contains quotations from heinrich schuetz and clear influence from haydn . nonetheless , the bulk of the piece shows the originality of gubaidulina through and through and has an elaborate technical basis on the cello which is too long to quote here , but which is included in the liner notes . the strings of the camerata transsylvanica ( ironically based in budapest after the emigration of its members ) under gyorgy selmeczi are intense and unfaltering . as is unfortunately usual with naxos discs , the weak point is the liner notes . the english and german are , inexplicably , two different commentaries instead of a common text translated from one or the other . keith anderson 's english commentary is quite interesting but poorly edited and unprofessional . teresa pieschacon raphael 's german commentary tells something about gubaidulina 's place in the soviet music community which english readers too should have been able to enjoy . though naxos was kind enough to provide commentaries in two languages , the profile of the performers is only in english . these three pieces , especially the last , make an excellent introduction to the work of this superlative composer , and at an economic price . this is one of the finest works in my collection , and i sincerely and passionately recommend it to just about anyone