best single disc collection of the uni/mca years while neil has written and recorded a wealth of outstanding material throughout his career , his albums have tended to be a bit uneven . perhaps that 's why there are so many neil diamond compilation albums on the shelf these days . this collection culls the best selections from his late 60s and early 70s uni/mca albums . in fact , this set is essentially an expanded version of the now out-of-print his 12 greatest hits . and while that album supplanted the studio versions of sweet caroline and holly holy with strong live versions from hot august night , this collection restores the original studio recordings . hot august night , neil 's last mca album before leaving for columbia , is represented with the stellar live version of cherry , cherry . but as good as that version is , i would have dropped it ( along with the cover of he ai n't heavy , he 's my brother ) for cold water morning , glory road and two-bit manchild . that 's a minor quibble though , as this set does contain all of the essential recordings from the period in breathtakingly pristine sound quality . several reviewers have complained about the lack of certain songs ( heartlight , kentucky woman , thank the lord for the night time , etc. ) . for the record , this is a compilation of neil 's best work from his uni/mca recording era ( 1968-1972 ) . the early singles ( thank the lord for the night time , kentucky woman , solitary man and the original studio version of cherry , cherry ) were recorded for bang records in 1966 and 1967 . the best collection of the early bang records material is classics : the early years . america and love on the rocks were recorded for capitol while most later era songs like september morn , if you know what i mean and heartlight were recorded for columbia ( beginning with the jonathan livingston seagull album in 1973 ) . the best single-disc collection of neil 's columbia material is probably 12 greatest hits , volume ii . fans interested in purchasing a career spanning retrsopective may be tempted to buy greatest hits 1966-1992 or the essential neil diamond but both of those compilations suffer from the inclusion of inferior live versions of in place of the original studio recordings . the career spanning box set , in my lifetime , largely avoids the live version replacement issue that plagues other compilations but it suffers from its own share of problems , namely an abundance of mildly interesting ( but ultimately unnecessary ) rarities . the most efficient method of compiling your own triple disc , career spanning box set is to purchase these three titles : classics - the early years [ neil 's bang records recordings from 1966-1967 ] , the neil diamond collection [ the uni/mca sampler reviewed above ] , and 12 greatest hits volume ii [ the best of the capitol and columbia years ] .