the most underrated band in america what can i say about cracker 's & quot ; the golden age & quot ; ? i have had this tremendous album for years and it is still fresh to me to this day . it is easily one of my favorite albums , and i have a lot of music . the album is awesome , consistent yet not generic . it hits you hard with bone-crunching guitar powered anthems ( sweet thistle pie , nothing to believe in , 100 flower power maximum ) , then loosens up with catchy crackeresque sarcastic songs ( how can i live without you , useless stuff ) and then blows your mind with blissfully mellow thought-provoking tunes that sound out of a western ghost town ( bicycle spaniard , big dipper ) . the core of cracker was and always will be david lowery and jon hickman - other members have come and gone - yet not missed that much . the golden age saw cracker at an all time high when coming off their stupendous predecessor album , the platinum & quot ; kerosene hat , & quot ; which featured the hits & quot ; low & quot ; and & quot ; eurotrash girl. & quot ; some may feel that this album does not live up to kerosene 's greatness , yet others like myself , find this album even better and more consistent . this is a true great american band that has never quite gotten their due , and they should be recognized for bringing back fond memories of classic-rock bands like the heartbreakers , the byrds , the eagles , led zeppelin , and even the great neil young with their tunes . if you have not heard the golden age , or cracker for that matter , you are missing out - so what are you waiting for ? . there have been so many flash in the pan bands as well as the other drek that fills our radio airwaves lately . a band like cracker is truly a breath of fresh air and originality to the true & quot ; music & quot ; fan , not just some sampled , generic , over-the-hill , bubble gum , or boy band shlock that makes me want to puke . the opening track , i hate my generation , speaks volumes to me about what is going on in the music industry these days : corporate greed . this album , the golden age , in the words of spinal tap 's nigel tufnel , truly goes to 11 . five stars out of five - a classic