angela hewitt at her finest if you are newer to bach 's abundent solo keyboard music - or angela hewitt - then this cd is an excellent place to start . it features the popular `` french overture '' and contains some of the more lyrical and `` accessible '' music bach wrote for the keyboard . there is a delightful mix of bach compositions here capturing the diverse musical styles from italy , france , germany and spain . bach shows himself to be a true `` non-politico '' as well as the master composer by skillfully combining these styles ( namely from france and italy ) to produce works of great appeal and mastery - but in a style that is uniquely `` bach . '' in the opening piece , hewitt does great justice to bach 's tribute to the italian concerto style with a convincing `` dialog '' between lighter solo episodes ( tutti ) and the fuller passages imitating orchestral effect ( ritornello ) - all on one keyboar of course . this piece is most famous for the adagio which hewitt infuses with much heart and soul by her delicate , thoughtful melodic lines that never approach over sentimentality . the main event of this cd must certainly be the monumental `` french overture '' ( aka : partita in b minor ) - a grand conception lasting some 30 minutes repleat with numerous movements of french courtly dance influence and rich in imaginative and decorative keyboard effects . miss hewitt wonderfully articulates these effervescent rhythms with supreme confidence and masterful result . her ornamentations are always tasteful , seamlessly integrated and truly enthralling to hear . in the off-beat rhythms of the gigue , her semiquavers bounce off the page with great poise and the crispness of fresh-pressed linen . and she shows her masterful pianism to its fullest in the curious final `` echo '' movement , bringing an brilliant , orchestral quality to it . hiding in the shadows of these two main events are four charming little `` duets . '' these are no mere `` fillers '' but delightfully catchy , two-part inventions that hewitt plays to full effect . rounding out the program is a most unique `` program music '' piece by bach thought written around the story of his older brother 's departure ( `` capriccio on departure of his brother '' ) . in it , angela hewitt communicates both its nostalgic sentiments with her gentle , poinant phrasing and dynamics along with the piece 's festive celebratory ending with her effective creation of trumpet and horn effects . in this unique composition , hewitt succeeds to create a wonderful range of emotive effects in one piece . indeed , her carefree yet tight-on-the-rails style truly seems to bring out the best of bach 's keyboard treasures - transforming them into music of great vitality and charm . her approach to bach is one of artistry , nuance and good taste ( not unlike schiff ) but without the `` directness '' or the `` rough edges '' that can be found in other performer 's approaches ( gould and gulda , respectfully ) . the many great bach performers through the last decades have given us many `` pallates of color '' to experience , and hewitt 's colors are most notably beauty of tone , a poetic flavor , and graceful fluidity of line at its heart . it is no wonder that angela hewitt has been heralded as `` the premier bach pianist of this generation . '' just about any recording of bach 's keyboard music by angela hewitt is a safe bet for being among the top choices available , and this cd is certainly no exception . it received the highest marks from both gramaphone and penguin guides while classicstoday gave it a perfect 10/10 for artisty/sound quality . in all her bach recordings from hyperion , the sound quality of this recording is among the fullest and most realistically recorded ( where some other recordings like her couperin , wtc or french suites are done with a touch more `` spaciousness '' but still with clarity ) . also a highlight are the scholarly and detailed notes delineating the nuances of the various `` dance '' types that bach encorporated into his compositions . in all , an emmensely satisfying recording from a top bach pianist of our time . highly recommended