krayzie bone rips rap a new a $ $ ... i saw this album when it first came out back in '99 , but do to some hard times and a lot of other b/s , i never got around to buying it until the summer of 2004 . i am huge bone fan , they are the group that got me into rap , and i 'm into much rap , look at my reviews and you 'll see that i am metal head , but i love the bone ! ! ! layzie and krayzie are my favorites , followed by wish and flesh then bizzy . i like all of the members , but i love layzie and krayzie 's delivery and lyrics . so after i finally got around to buying this double disck collektion , i was really amazed at the material on here . first off , i 'll admit that i do n't like every track , but i 'm a white metal head so what do you expect ? but the tracks i do like , i really feel and appreciate them . the moods this album can put me through are really amazing . one minute you can be feeling the fire from heated heavy , where my thugz at , thug alwayz , silent warrior , shoot the club up , world war . then the next moment you can be feeling some more mellow beats but at the same time it 's still cold blooded murda mo going on on tracks like murda mo , try me , thug mentality , these dayz . but there are even more mellow tracks too like paper , smokin budda , that 's the way , wo n't ez up tonight . this album is really awesome , krayzie tears up all the tracks , i love how his flow can go from mellow , to angry , to smoothe laid back sounding . here 's all the tracks that i like off this album and a rating for each . 1.thug invasion-an excellent intro 2.heated heavy-krayzie 's flow is lightining fast and as tight as ever . 10 3.paper-a nice mellow track , awesome beat that keeps the song interesting . 10 4.payback is a bitch-this song really makes me want to shoot some bitches up ! -9 5.dummy man-haha , scandolous ass krayzie ! 9 6.drama-i actaully like this song , it 's really true that the b/s never stops . 8 7.world war-tight track-8 when i die-i actually like this track , no one else seems to agree that is fire ! 9 8.thug alwayz-krayzie , layzie , flesh , and wish tear it up ! awesome beat ! 10 9.thug mentality-i like how he nakes off all the places , nice beat and lyrics . 9 10.murda wo n't stop-tight ass intro-10 11.where my thugz at-another tight-ass track-9 12.try me-i read a lot reviews that said this song was filler , but listen to the lyrics and you 'll see why he wrote this song . 9 13.these dayz-this song has some awesome lyrics and a great beat ! listen to all of the versus lyrics ! 10 14.silent warrior-this song is the fire ! ! ! 10 15.shoot the clup up-love this track ! 10 16.wo n't ez up-9 17.that 's the way-awesome laid back track-10 18.murda mo-love this track ! ! krayzie tears it up ! ! 10 i highly recommend this to any bone fan , this will really compliment your kollecktion ! !