fantastic captain and the kid i have held back from doing an online review because i recognize that my objectivity is n't well , very objective when it comes to elton john . i love everything he does ( even `` victim of love '' ! ) . but i could no longer resist . this cd is magnificent . elton john and bernie taupin have crafted a work that spans generations , bridges gaps and even pays homage to personal and artistic lapses over the years . it is an honest , courageous and celebratory reflection of the terrain these two geniuses have traversed over some 37 years . that 's the depth of `` the captain and the kid . '' but let 's not get lost in the depths here , either . this cd is one great listen . even if you 're not interested in the history ... even if you 're just a casual fan ( can one just be a casual elton john fan ? ? ) or just like good music , `` the captain and the kid '' is great entertainment . it has it all ... great arrangements , great piano playing from elton and of course , hooks abound . no one ... that 's right , no one can write a hook like elton . these songs stay with you ... they become your companions on your journey , and like good wine , they get better and better . i must also write a word of support for all who have written regarding so many artists doing retreads of old standards/hits . i know , i know , this stuff is selling like there 's no tomorrow . i suppose , as much as i ca n't bear another rod stewart retread cd ( i loved rod though most of his career ... i just ca n't stand what he 's done over the last five years ... rod ... please stop ! ) i guess the attraction/appeal of these cd 's is that the buyer knows they 're going to get a full cd 's worth of good ( or at least known ) songs from a reliable artist . true , it is not as easy as it used to be to find many cd 's today that are original and good from start to finish ... cd 's tend to be longer than lp 's and therefore run the risk of running out of steam , and let 's face it ... many do . oh , the classic cd 's , they 're out there , you might have to do some mining before striking gold , however . sadly , `` the captain and the kid '' did not ignite the charts . i can not understand it . and i do realize that popularity has nothing to do with greatness . yet , this is truly a great cd , a work of art that deserves to be heard . it is a throw back to the glory days , yet it is not dated in the least . and one listen ... just one puts you right back on the yellow brick road , platform shoes and all ! no , i suppose you ca n't go back ... not totally anyway , but it is oh so nice take one more sweet ride with the captain and the kid .