def leppard 's finest hour . predating the whole pop-metal explosion of the later 80 's by a few years , def leppard 's 1983 masterpiece `` pyromania '' still is a shining of how metal sensibilities can successfully merge with pop to create something that has integrity , substance and not an inkling of self parody ( which def leppard would end up falling prety to themselves in a few short years after this album ) . i became a def leppard fan with their 1981 album high 'n ' dry but pyromania took things to an entirely different level . the songwriting in particular stands as some of the best and catchiest of the 80 's ( or any decade for that matter ) . the band never sounded better and this was the last album for a while that drummer rick allen would play an acoustic kit on as he had n't had his tragic 1984 car wreck yet in which he would lose his left arm . singer joe elliot 's voice was its strongest as well displaying a great range throughoug the wide range of songs on this album . guitarist steve clark along with pete willis ( who would be sacked shortly before this album was completed ) create a great guitar team . peter collen only contributed some solos to this album as he joined really late in the game , but his solo on the track stagefright ( my favorite dl tune of all time btw ) is amazing in both his note choice & chops in addition to his feel . bassist rick savage and drummer rick allen create a rock solid rhythm section in the vein of ac/dc and add to the proceedings without drawing too much attention to themselves . producer robert `` mutt '' lange would contribue to a co-writer on most tracks in addition to adding a very clean and crips sheen to all of the tracks . this is one of the most well mixed rock/metal albums ever . to be honest , there 's not much more i can say about how great this album is that other countless reviewers have already stated . this is def leppard at the height of their powers/creativity and unfortunately beginning slightly with hysteria , the world would see the band crumble into self parody and an endless sea of wretched power ballads . essential !