a hallmark album for a superb band to showcase its contemporary bluegrass playing time - 39:05 -- don rigsby does n't even turn the big 4-0 until february 28 of 2008 . already he has two decades of professional bluegrass experience with such top groups as longview , bluegrass cardinals , j.d . crowe & the new south , lonesome river band and rock country . he 's also released four highly-acclaimed solo albums and was twice named spbgma 's male vocalist for the year . when rock country disbanded , don was faced with two choices - work for someone else , or form his own band . he chose the latter and , unlike previous solo albums from rigsby ( on the sugar hill label ) that enlisted friends and session players , he has recorded `` hillbilly heartache '' with his own group ( midnight call ) that includes himself singing lead and playing mandolin , along with dale vanderpool ( banjo ) , shayne bartley ( guitar ) , jesse wells ( fiddle ) , and robert maynard ( bass ) . it was a good move to do it all themselves this time because it 's a crackerjack band . in a few instances , ( make god laugh , red bird , prisoner on the highway ) , their vocal arrangements also call for rigsby to jump up to tenor on the choruses . `` he loves to hear you shout '' ( written by dixie and tom t. hall ) is a very nicely presented vocal quartet for the group with rigsby , vanderpool , bartley and wells doing the vocalizing . while best known for his mandolin picking , don 's a versatile multi-instrumentalist , and it 's a treat to hear him also provide some snippets of guitar , mandele , and fiddle . two songs ( `` these golden fields '' and `` any bar in birmingham '' ) incorporate some of don 's light percussion . the former , about farming , features don 's high-lead singing with two harmonies below , as well as wells ' octave violin for a different mood . obviously , quite a bit of forethought went into producing these songs in the best possible manner for us . in a few , the banjo is muted , and on the closing number , `` i am the man , thomas '' ) jesse wells lays down his fiddle to provide clawhammer banjo as the only accompaniment for don 's voice . midnight call 's repertoire is drawn from some excellent songwriters ( shawn camp , marty rabon , jim lauderdale , mark brinkman , larry shell , kim williams , tim stafford , and others ) . bobby cyrus is a co-writer of `` big jim . '' i 'm curious as to whether big jim is a fictional folkloric character or whether there was actually a man who sacrificed himself for others . you may recall that it was cyrus who penned the reflective `` carved our names in stone '' that was sung solo by rigsby on his last solo album , the midnight call . farmers , family , life and love get ample coverage in the songs . for his song of home , he belts out an inspired rendition of bill monroe 's `` kentucky waltz . '' another tale from that region is an intoxicating `` daddy was a moonshine man . '' a standard instrumental , `` forked deer '' gallops along , but i hope their future projects introduce us to new tunes . sung solo , `` old green chevrolet '' relates a tale of a traveling preacher bringing the gospel to mountain folks , and i missed a little harmony on the choruses . with `` hillbilly heartache , '' evocative messages get us thinking , smiling , contemplating , and even laughing when the intoxicating `` daddy was a moonshine man '' cues up . this kentuckian clearly has strong mountain roots , and he knows what it takes to produce a very compelling bluegrass album . his reputation and dedication to traditional music , and his innovative vision for the future , are well documented . while he may have stretched boundaries a bit in the past , `` hillbilly heartache '' is simply a hallmark album for a superb band to showcase its contemporary bluegrass . ( joe ross , staff writer , bluegrass now )