a demanding listen , but a great one it ai n't easy being an interpreter . christopher o'riley 's an accomplished classical pianist , but his biggest claims to fame are three piano interpretations of modern musicians -- two discs worth or re-imagined radiohead , and now this excellent exploration of elliott smith . most respectable classical musicians do n't do this sort of thing -- they usually stick to what are deemed respectable composers . and the ones who do bother with anything composed after , say , 1925 and played on anything other than orchestra instruments ? they become a little trashy by association , exuding a faint odor of music whoredom as they ride the rock n ' roll gravy train from the new release section to the bargain bin . ( this happens whether they 're re-interpreting the rolling stones or pink floyd or , heaven help us , metallica . ) heck , most musicians in general are fearful of doing too much of someone else 's work , lest they be seen as bar-band ready tribute acts rather than as the sainted singer-songwriters they 'd like to be . thank heavens o'riley 's not like most musicians . he seems to see interpretation as something like what it used to be in the frank sinatra heydey -- something anyone can and should do as much as they want to , provided they 're patient enough to really take their time about it and bold enough to make someone else 's songs their own . for that 's the true test of a musician -- not whether or not they cover other people 's work , but whether they put in the effort to give their audience something more than a tracing-paper copy of a song 's original outlines . by that standard , o'riley 's latest outing 's a smashing success . it is a demanding listen -- do n't just pop in while riding the subway to work . i 'm thinking headphones at home , late night , no distractions , just you and chris and chris 's piano and elliott 's ghost . on his previous outings , o'riley had an easier task -- on most radiohead songs , lyrics and musical tone match pretty well . ( paranoid songs sound paranoid . unhappy songs sound unhappy . and ... well , that just about covers it , actually . not that i 'm complaining , thom . ) but what made elliott special , among other things , was the way he so frequently married bleak lyrics about depression and addiction and self-loathing to poppy little tunes as radio-friendly as anything this side of the early 60s beatles . so o'riley 's opted here for re-imaginings that somehow capture the trajectory of the original songs while giving them the melancholy feel of elliot 's tragic lyrics and aching voice . ( check out `` i did n't understand '' or `` speed trials '' or especially the sad scared rumble of `` independence day '' if you want to know what i 'm talking about . ) as usual , o'riley goes above and beyond the call of duty in scouring the back catalog for songs to play . ( if you 're like me , that means you might miss `` pitselah '' but feel comforted that someone out there 's a much more devoted and appreciative elliott smith fan than you 'll ever be . ) it 's a shame this sort of thing does n't happen more often . then again , there are n't too many modern musicians respectable enough to deserve the o'riley treatment