the best supertramp live album even 25 years later supertramp 's seventh album entitled paris was released in october of 1980 . the album was recorded in november of 1979 in paris , france at the pavillion on the final night of the band 's breakfast in america european tour . paris is a wonderful live set , capturing the band at the peak of their popularity when co-leader/guitarist/vocalist/keyboardist roger hodgson was still with the group . when you consider that the possibility of hodgson returning to supertramp these days very doubtful , paris becomes a more important live document of the band , indeed . many great supertramp classics are included in this live two disc set , such as most of 1974 's grand breakthrough crime of the century ( the spirited opener school , bloody well right , hide in your shell , asylum , dreamer , rudy and the closing crime of the century which closes this live album ) , three songs from 1975 's highly underrated followup crisis ? what crisis ? ( ai n't nobody but me , a soapbox opera and two of us ) , two from 1977 's gold selling us breakthrough even in the quietest moments ( from now on and fool 's overture ) , and three from the # 1 multi-platinum selling breakfast in america ( the monster hit the logical song , the title cut and the top 20 smash take the long way home ) plus one exclusive song called you started laughing which was not found anywhere else save the b-side to a song called lady from crisis ? what crisis ? . hodgson and co-leader/keyboardist/vocalist rick davies sing their hearts out and play their respective keyboards with great passion , and hodgson also serves up some incredible fretwork on the guitar . co-horts john helliwell on saxophones/clarinets/occasional keyboards , additional backing vocals and band mc ( he does the stage bantering here , especially his humorous intro to breakfast in america ) , drummer bob c. benberg and bass player dougie thomson have terrific interplay with hodgson and davies , helping to bring the band 's great melodic music to life in tremendous fashion . just like on their studio albums , the band totally cook live in concert , too . the songs on here rival their studio counterparts , especially on rudy which is played at a faster speed than the studio version on the roger/rick vocal duel section . paris did well peaking at # 8 on the album charts ( going gold right away ) and is one of my top 10 favorite live rock albums ever , especially with the remastering on this album . highly recommended !