a sparkling gem in early progressive rock history the album , `` in rock '' , by deep purple , was a milestone in early progressive rock history ; a gem showcasing british hard rock at its best and an example of this particular genre that was strongly influenced by classical music . it was the first studio album by a new line-up of the band that attained great success commercially , producing four ( 4 ) solid studio albums while touring the world almost nonstop . the new members of the band were ian gillan on vocals and roger glover on bass , and what a difference their addition made to the sound of the band . just take a listen to the song , `` child in time '' , a timeless masterpiece of more than ten minutes in length . just prior to releasing the album , `` in rock '' , the first studio album for this renown line-up of the band , deep purple recorded a unique presentation of their work with the royal philharmonic orchestra . the work was performed ( and recorded for later album release ) in september of 1969 . entitled , `` concerto for group and orchestra '' , the work reflected the band 's strong initial ties to classical music , and it was a wonderful foretaste of things to come . it certainly drew attention to the band . with the presentation of its first work together as a band at a prestigious venue , namely , the royal albert hall in london , deep purple began to forge something new and worthwhile in progressive rock , a path that blended the unique talents of its members , all of whom were accomplished musicians . specifically , the band 's music was highlighted , and driven , by organist jon lord ; by the guitar of a true guitar virtuoso in richie blackmore ; and now , by the strong vocals of a new member of the band , ian gillan , who oftentimes wailed and screamed to complement effectively the sheer volume of the music that his bandmates produced . after all , these were the wonderful beginnings of hard rock in all of its glory ! nevertheless , and astonishingly as it may seem , the band was not alone on this particular path in rock music history . other bands were likewise breaking new ground in 1969 in the progressive rock music field just ahead of the release of deep purple 's album , `` in rock . '' the moody blues were already well-established ; king crimson 's initial line-up of that year would become a short-lived new-comer ; and yes , having had just released its second album , was still going through personnel changes . led zeppelin , although not a part of the progressive rock music scene , was nevertheless establishing its name in hard rock in 1969 , but the band was coming from a different direction musically , drawing its inspiration from the blues . another prominent band at that time in the progressive rock music field , the moody blues , also had an opportunity to record their music with an orchestra , specifically , the london festival orchestra . the renown line-up of the band with justin hayward and john lodge recorded their initial album , `` days of future past '' , with the aforementioned orchestra in 1967 . however , the band decided to play all of the instruments themselves for their second effort , namely , the album , `` in search of a lost chord . '' here , the moody blues played thirty-three different instruments , including the mellotron . this relatively new instrument duplicated , to some degree , the wonderful sounds of an entire philharmonic orchestra . taking the mellotron into the studio , and afterwards , on the road , on the concert circuit , meant that the band was able to trailblaze , at its own pace , free from being dependent upon a philharmonic orchestra , its unique sound in progressive rock music . as a result , by 1969 , the moody blues had already established themselves as innovative musicians in the progressive rock music field and more , with the release of each new album , the moody blues continued to broaden their horizons musically and add to their ever-growing fan base . unsurprisingly , the moody blues broke new ground in 1969 with the release of two phenomenal albums , namely , `` on the threshhold of a dream '' and `` to our children 's children . '' both of these albums are worth a listen . significantly , the popularity of these two albums marked a broadening acceptance in 1969 of progressive rock music , and in regards to the moody blues , the mellotron became an integral part of their music . nonetheless , the stage was set for the following year when the well-known line-up of the moody blues would release their fifth album , `` a question of balance '' , continuing their strong ties with classical music , and deep purple would release their gem , `` in rock . '' it is important to note here that deep purple followed a slightly different path from the one taken by the moody blues . while the moody blues preferred softer sounds and vocals that produced memorable ballads and love songs , and at times , the band even added passages of read poetry on their albums , deep purple followed the direction of ever-louder music , levels that prompted its singer , ian gillan , at times , to wail and scream ! while deep purple headed towards the branch of progressive rock music that would eventually be labeled as `` hard rock '' , the moody blues embraced an entirely different vision . the band set the controls for their somewhat mystical journey pointed towards the heavens . on this preset course , the moody blues , that is , their music and their lyrics , actually became , at times , heaven-bound , especially when their music was surrounded by , enriched with , and propelled by , the outworldly sounds of the mellotron . king crimson was another band that , at that time , was forging new paths in progressive rock music . king crimson made its public debut in the summer of 1969 at a free concert in london 's hyde park with the rolling stones , and soon thereafter , the band released its five-song masterpiece , `` in the court of the crimson king . '' the album quickly became a true phenomenon , influencing many musicians at that time . like the moody blues , king crimson used the mellotron ; like deep purple , the band had a true guitar virtuoso in robert fripp ; and like the individual members of the moody blues , king crimson employed the services of a multi-instrumentalist in ian mcdonald . like the moody blues and deep purple , king crimson was strongly influenced by classical music , but the band 's music also reflected its ties to jazz and folk music . like the moody blues , king crimson placed considerable weight on the lyrics of its songs , employing the noted lyricist , peter sinfield . however , this initial ( and stellar ) line-up of the band was to become short-lived , and as a result , it unfortunately only created this one well-received album . during this period of time , another band was likewise beginning its journey on a path that , with the passage of time , would prove to be extraordinarily successful . the band was led zeppelin . like deep purple , led zeppelin 's music was oftentimes loud , hence the label , `` hard rock '' , but unlike deep purple and other progressive rock bands at that time , led zeppelin 's music was based on the blues and , to some extent , on british folk music . as a result , led zeppelin followed a slightly different path within the hard rock genre than deep purple , but its music had such an ever-growing appeal that its popularity influenced many bands both , established and those bands that were just starting out . like deep purple , led zeppelin had a true guitar virtuoso in jimmy page who , in the early years of the band , played his electric guitar with a violin bow as a novelty and also to produce special effects . much like the supergroup , cream , that preceded them , led zeppelin continued to electrify the blues and while the band was reformulating this process , it began to establish its own style , a style that , along with the band , black sabbath , and several other bands at that time , began to mold yet another branch of rock called , `` heavy metal . '' led zeppelin released its initial album , `` led zeppelin '' , in january of 1969 , and its second album , `` led zeppelin ii '' , later in the year . both of these albums profoundly changed the rock music landscape forever that year