gang starr 's best work . gang starr really put out some classic ish here . this is one of those albums that you may dismay as being sub-par , or even bad first listen if you ar n't into underground , but you soon relize how this album is a gem . dj premeir , and guru have been putting out classic material sence the late 80 's , with there first full album `` no more mr. nice guy '' . premo is widely regaurded as one of the finest producers to ever grace the boards in hip hop history , and his partner in crime guru is known as the king of monotone rap . this is artistically a incredible peice of work . guru & premo put out a style of rap that wasnt commen in the 90 's , and is non-existant now ! a minimalistic producer known for playing a melody of three keys , and a obsession for scratching teaming up with a monotone soft spoken slow tempo rapper . sound like a weird combonation right ? wrong ... if being a hip hop duo was a marrige gang starr would have been couple of the year for 10 years straight . this is the type of album you have to spend some time listening to , sure i have my favorite songs of the batch , but they are all solid , and the way premo mixed together the songs , and even transitions is strokes of genius . sure you can listen to `` im the man '' 5 times , but you will get the full effect of `` im the man '' in the way gang starr me n't for you to hear it if you listen to the tracks leading to it . everything seems timed perfectly . strong in your face , phony rapper , and conspiracy theorys come in at the proper time for a full listen thru . the interludes are also excellently timed . after hearing `` im the man '' you want something a little chill , & relax , so premo follows it up with `` 92 interlude '' a soft short , but sweet 30 second paino riff . and even the intro is a great beat , than instead of it sounding like a new track they programmed it to go immediatly into the next track , cause the beats mix together . guru lyrically is sharp , and he does not need much help , with only 2 guest appearences , and literally 2 guest appearences , sence premo controlls all the hook 's with mastery guru shows his lyrical powress , consistently spitting 30 plus bars in his monotone serious voice every track , except the interludes . in this album dj premier seems to be the architect , and guru seems to be the foundation . premier uses his mastery of beatmaking , programming , mixing , scatching , and especially sampling to construct a masterpeice around guru 's lyrics which are the foundation . bottomline , you got ta pick this up if your a hip hop head