`` unreal ... .. '' review proves what i 've said in previous reviews obviously mr. t. hardin is suffering from some musical mental problems . he would apparently refer the knuckle-dragging , amateurish , talentless stylings of the hundreds of bands that play the same three notes a thousand beats per minute while some oaf screams and growls unintelligible garble supposedly using all sorts of elaborate words for 'kill ' that neither the band nor the fans know how to use or say properly . ok , now that i 've gotten that rant over with , let me continue on to what you really want to read . this was actually the very first manowar album i heard . a friend picked it up the day it came out , let me borrow it after he listened to it once , and never got it back ( sorry darren ) . i was forever hooked . the first half of the album is classic , well produced , straight ahead metal . fantastic , clear solos on each song . the title track is a classic manowar anthem . it sums up what they are quite well . 'blow your speakers ' is not only another trademark metal anthem , but is also the closest manowar has gotten to an actual `` hit '' in the u.s. `` carry on '' , one of my instant favorites , is and inspirational rally cry ; the kind manowar is known for , among other things . `` violence and bloodshed ' is a fast and furious return to the heavy metal beginnings and vietnam theme that has n't been seen since the first album `` battle hymns '' . all in all the first half of this album is just in your face heavy metal . the second half is a return to the days of long , long ago . 'defender ' is one of the last things that the late , great orson welles ever did before his passing . i listened to this track at least 200 times in the first week i had this album . it aptly sets the tone for the rest of the record . a rich narrative that opens to a powerful crash of truly heavy metal . from this point on , this album does it all . beautifully clear and powerful bass lines . articulate and soaring lead solos . earth shaking drums . and the absolute best vocals on any recording of the time . 'drums of doom ' pounds you into 'holy war ' like a charging team of mammoth beasts which then throws you into the 'master of revenge ' , a mystical segue into 'black wind , fire and steel ' which blinds all with the relentless speed and accuracy of both music and lyrics . all done at a rate that almost defies logic . manowar have definitely cemented there place as the kings of metal with this album forevermore . all those who refuse to believe it can go back their amateurs and goons . leave us and make room for the true men of heavy metal .