the best of all i have heard several bohemes in my time - my favorites being the versions with pav and freni ; tebaldi and bergonzi ; and this one . neither of the first two can match this recording in overall effect . karajan with pav/freni , while firmly in possession of his own wonder , misses by a hair beecham 's sensuous conducting logic . also pav is not the best rodolfo : he sings too opulently to convey a blue , starving poet . the tebaldi/bergonzi set is a sure contender , and might have stood right with this one if its sound were n't so bad . now as for this set itself - three words say it : bjoerling with beecham . these were two of the finest artists of the last century , and it is a blessing to have this record of their collaboration . jussi , while perhaps not as romantic as bergonzi , was a rodolfo for all time . that ringing golden tenor truly could build castles in air . and hell , he was romantic enough for comfort . add beecham , and , if you please , you 've got glory . his pacing is perfect . just listen to about midway through `` che gelida manina , '' where bjoerling soars and beecham expands the tempo to let jussi 's voice raise the rafters and burn deep . and i tell you what , jussi could burn . the quantity of air that man had was astonishing at the least , and he did n't waste it : his phrases are easy , well-drawn , and thrilling . i have no important complaints about anyone else in the cast . i actually prefer de los angeles 's mimi , though i think she sometimes does n't support high notes with enough air . as for the orchestra , there are a few mishaps where accurate entrances with the singers are concerned , but that is hardly surprising - the ensemble was assembled in roughly two days and its memebers had barely played with one another or with beecham . the sound of the set is n't as good as one might expect from the great recordings series , but it is acceptable , and a well-informed ear can fill in any lacking overtones . buy it . you 'll love it for many years , and then pass down through your family