sloppy mush this review concentrates on the four live tracks . by december 1970 , miles davis ' fusion was evolving even beyond the bitches brew era . the emphasis was more and more in the rhythm , and less and less on coherent solos . miles davis stuck a wah-wah pedal on his horn , getting a sound that was thin , whiny and rather annoying . keith jarrett and michael henderson joined the band , lending the band a unique keyboard sound and a funkier bass respectively . live evil basically consists of several edited jams from the cellar door recordings of december 1970 . sivad : the recording begins on a high point ; vicious funk punctuated by airto moreira 's squawking cuica , and stabbed through with miles davis ' electric trumpet . this is actually a version of `` directions '' by joe zawinul , although the tune is so evolved it is basically unrecogniseable . the statements of the theme have been excised with a razor blade . miles ' horn is electric , and its sound is a mixture of birth of the cool and axis : bold as love . truly strange , and frankly not a very nice sound . three and a half minutes in , the groove shifts to `` honky tonk '' , a minimalistic and not very inspiring theme . the performance is sellotaped together from two separate live performances of the tune ( ! ) and one studio version ! miles sometimes plays with an open horn on this section ; and airto moreira makes weird wailing noises that sound rather corny . sloppy and shapeless . what i say : a feature for jack de johnette , a terrific drummer . the groove is extremely harsh and energetic , with miles soloing with an open horn . unlike the other tracks , this is actually a complete performance ( segueing into `` sanctuary '' at the end ) and is quite impressive . i really like jarret 's electric piano/organ solo and johnette 's drum solo ! funky tonk/inamorata : in which teo macero goes nuts with the scissors . this is actually one big slab of a performance , cut arbitrarily in half to fit both sides of an lp . and it is not one piece of music , but three : 1 . `` directions '' : yet another performance of zawinul 's piece . much more conventional than the `` sivad '' version , though again with all the statements of the theme cut out . miles soloes with electric trumpet . 2 . then the groove shifts to a piece which resembles the mission impossible theme ! so this is where they got that theme . the name of the tune is sometimes called `` funky tonk '' , and sometimes `` inamorata '' . a very long , sloppy , shapeless morass of solos . again , jarret 's solo is most beautiful . 3.finally the groove shifts to `` it 's about that time '' from `` in a silent way '' . a performance that does not shift into the second bassline . halfway through a gloomy voice narrates a weird , associative poem about the mysteries of music . at the fade-out , you can hear the groove shifting to `` sanctuary ... '' overall , the album is extremely messy , with a good deal of self-indulgent excess masking some excellent soloing . atmospheric and very dense .