yay esp ! in 1987 barry , robin , and maurice were reunited ! or at least that 's how new distributor warner brothers tried to sell it . even though the brothers never really left themselves or us , but i digress . i only have this album on cdr , since warner 's seemed to make the release very scarce . the cover is cool , though . the boys look totally different from when audiences remembered them last . no white , no hair , well not as much anyway . black . dark , edgy . i 'm pip and i 've come to play ! esp is naturally the song to lead off the album . it is different from any other project the brothers did at the time . better than walls have eyes , more polished than now voyager . however , esp is also very stand alone on this album and nothing else here sounds like it . ( not that i mind that of course . ) we heard some of robin 's coming out voice party on living eyes , but in songs shared with baz . barry moved onto some heavy producing , but without robin . esp brings them together again and slams both powerhouses . there is so much going on in this song , you can imagine this is what a telepath hears . noise , each trying to have its own say , competing with everything else that is heard , and all of it 's important . brilliant . ah , you win again . although not as well know in the us as the fever monsters , this song is indeed one of those monster songs that you just have to love . there are so many hooks , lines , and sinkers musically , lyrically , vocally . from the whole second verse 's play on `nobody stops this body ' to robin 's oh baby ! wail to that bombing drum throughout . hot damn . this song did actually even encroach the us charts , imagine that ! live or die ( hold me like a child ) ( what is it with them and parenthesis ? ) is the first slow song presented . barry returns to his shrill notes and sometimes the versus are tough to understand . the chorus is strong and the lyrics as always are top notch . the ad-libbed over the top ending is perfect eighties power ballad fashion . the music and high voices are a little dated , but you ca n't help but try and sing along when your driving home alone late at night , or is that just me ? giving up the ghost sound a bit more like the tracks on walls have eyes , but that 's ok. great music rifts . some of the refrains are a bit much , and one of the times where i might say the chorus is the weaker part of the song . then again , the boys hold out `ghooooost ! ' and it sounds cool again . robin sounds great in the verses , since you can understand him seventy percent of the time . ; 0 ) the longest night is one of the hotter bee gees songs in my opinion , just like bodyguard . after their solo and side projects in the early eighties , the brothers came back for esp stronger again . robin with this song has somehow managed to combine the weeping joke sound with the booming voice he developed post fever . the vibrato was always there , but the five o'clock shadow eighties sounds fit robin 's haunting lyrics as the sixties mellow sound did . indeed esp together with walls have eyes is a dang good hunk of gibb material that it seems everyone missed . pity . every album has to have a fun song and this is your life is esp 's . it 's nice to see the brothers come back and kind of laugh off and yet embrace their past music . the lyrics `line-drop ' titles of other bee gees songs during the interlude . can i tell you this is the only time i sing to `jjjive talkin ' ! it 's barry rapping but with dribs and drabs from the old songs cutting in and out . very cool . i could recommend the entire album on that interlude alone if i had to , but i do n't . outside of its sweet and soft lyrics and vocals , angela is in my mind a little bit of a statement song . sometimes it feels like you can almost exchange `angela ' for `america ' . followed by the line `i 'm still alive ' , i wonder if the boys were making a veiled statement at us stubborn yanks . indeed they were still alive , and maybe this is also a pun on stayin ' alive . the new york times effect a man , remember . ; 0 ) the feel of the song is so innocent and easy feeling , but i suspect more ! the girl that got away ? i think not . maurice brings this album to a standstill with overnight . it 's the closest in vein to the song esp . maurice , however , adds not telepathy , but animal magnetism . it 's a different kind of psychic sense . the lyrics are so detailed and the interlude combining the echo of all three voices is exceptional . the music has , if there is such a thing , a predatory feeling that 's good . by the end of the song you are totally sold and yelling back , `` all right i 'll stay ! '' in the eighties and later on high civilization , the brothers seem to have a little motown tribute revival thing going . crazy for your love is fascinating in that it is has a motown throwback vibe and at the same time , it 's straight eighties bubblegum pop . ( tiffany , anyone ? ) i would cringe if i heard some tween today singing any song about love and ice cream . however , play crazy for a kid today , they will like it , and never know it is old men singing in 1987 ! how ingenious is it to find such a timeless song here ? ! backtafunk is not your traditional gibb song . it sounds a bit ... i want to say new edition ! naturally the brothers master all the hip beats and singing , even if the lyrics are slightly bland . again however , the breakaway interlude makes the song . the harmony and fun of the boys come in and the song kicks up to another level . is barry scatting ? incredible ! esp ends with the esp vocal reprise , and i do n't really know why . its just the opening echo of the voices on the first track , but it does sound cool . allow me to mention the oddities associated with esp , as you knew there would be some ! young love is an unreleased cut that did n't make the album . i managed to download a piece that cuts short , but it 's heavy in the low key maurice vein . honestly i do n't know why it was cut . the 1989 compilation tales from the brothers gibb contains an esp demo that is very similar to the final version , just missing a few production marks . fans should also check out the one for all tour vhs and dvd for concert footage of the boys singing giving up the ghost and extras from one . warner brothers does not realize the bee gees quality they possess , and they should re-release esp . i wonder if this album planned to have any sort of theme to it ? each song touches a different type of emotion and vibe , and are n't songs in a way a psychic connection from one person to another ? interesting theory , kristin . interesting .