could have been better , but it does still give you the hits . guns n'roses are one of my all time favorite bands , so this album is a little disappointing , do n't get me wrong , nearly every song on here is great there are just other songs that are more deserving . it just so happens though that record labels never get greatest hits album right , just look at led zeppelin 's greatist hits . the only reason the record label released this anyways was because axl was taking way to long for chinese domocracy and they wanted some money , so they put this out , and it has gathered a good deal of money . this album does do a good job of confirming what all real rock fans already know , that guns n ' roses are one of the biggest and best rock bands of all time . they came at a time when rock and roll needed a savior , and they did just that , they brought some soul and attitude back in to the music . songs like november rain , welcome to the jungle , and paradise city really highlight the bands strong points , thus making this album a good starting point for a new fan . i would reccomend buying all their albums though , because all of them are genius , except for the spaghetti incident , which was just a cover album anyways . this album did fail to include classic cuts like mr.brownstone , it ai n't easy , nighttrain , rocket queen , and others and for that i am angry . also , how on earth did the sympathy for the devil cover get on here , it is simply terrible , possibly the worst guns n ' roses song ever . so , if you are already a huge fan and have all the albums , do n't get this , save your money for chinese democracy it is going to come , there have been rumors of a release before the year 's end . i have heard live versions of songs from the album and they are incredible , cuts like madagascar , the blues , rhiad and the bedouins reaffirmed my belief in axl , and i think if this album ever hits the light of day it will be huge . also check out a band called rose hill drive , they are the most exciting band out today and any true fan of rock and roll should enjoy them .