incubus ' most unique album `` morning view '' in my opinion is the most different album by incubus . their traditional sound lies within rock , hard rock , etc . but this album is the one with the most chilled-out songs on it . that is one of the reasons for this being my favorite incubus album : its originality . mind you ... if you like this album , do n't attain the mindset of `` omg if i like this one i 'll like their other albums too ! '' it does n't work that way ; incubus ' other releases are nothing like this , with the exception of a few songs . and now ... let 's move on to the song review . nice to know you -- a nice opening song . i like the lyrics a lot , and the constant transission between heavy rock and slow beats gives the song a good rhythm . 8.5/10 circles -- probably the one song on `` morning view '' that is most like incubus ' other albums . the guitar in the background is especially cool . the chorus is also nice , and the lyrics really stay true to the song title . 8/10 wish you were here -- my favorite song on this cd by far . the guitar riffs in this song are the greatest on the whole album . the chorus is also very amazing , and so are the lyrics . quite possibly a perfect song . 10/10 just a phase -- probably the song with the mose meaningful lyrics on the album . it starts off as an easy-going song with no lyrics and a catchy , steady beat and then is joined by powerful lyrics that have to do with going through a typical phase and how annoying it is to go through something like that . 9/10 11 a.m. -- a song with a mixture of incubus ' rock and the slow beats on this cd . this track acts as a bridge between the other albums and this album , in my opinion . 8.5/10 blood on the ground -- like circles , this track is like incubus ' songs from other albums . not only that , but this song 's lyrics are meaningful as well . it portrays getting in fights , but not saying anything to the other person ( hence `` blood in my mouth beats blood on the ground '' ) . 8/10 mexico -- the slowest song on here by far . this is such a big step for incubus , because as far as i can tell , they have never done anything like this before . this is why they are such an excellent band : they take risks by exploring other genres , and they do a good job at it too . 8.5/10 warning -- my second favorite track on the whole album . i dunno why , but it is excellent . the vocals and lyrics are the best here . especially the nice-sounding bit in which the vocals go `` we 'll make millions writing a book on the way it should have been . '' parts of this song like this one portray a great range in the vocals , which is why this is such a great song . 9.5/10 echo -- my favorite slow song . the vocals sound very nice , especially the chorus . the chorus alone is a reason to listen to this track over and over again . 9/10 have you ever -- not one of my personal favorites , but still a good track . it resembles a lot of other incubus songs on the other albums as well . this song is basically about putting yourself in someone else 's position before you judge them . 8/10 are you in ? -- the most pop-like song on the album . i was surprised and happy to hear this song . again : incubus is awesome at experimenting with new songs , and i must say , this one came out nicely . 9/10 under my umbrella -- also a lot like their other songs on albums such as `` make yourself . '' but the beginning vocals ( `` when i close my eyes ... '' ) sound awesome , and so does the main singing . overall , a good track . 8.5/10 aqueous transmission -- the most unique song ever done by incubus ever . it includes instruments they 've never used before , such as a japanese flute . it has a `` crouching-tiger , hidden-dragon '' feel to it , and it is enjoyable even for the sole reason that it is different from the rest of the songs . the vocals are also great . 9/10 overall score : 5 stars . this is definitely the most unique , most laid-back album by incubus . it shows a lot of very successful experimentation as well . i dunno what all this `` selling out '' talk is , but you should definitely buy this album . it is much different from the other albums , and still manages to be one of incubus ' best albums