not bad for a 13-year-old ok , i got this cd about year ago or something , and never got the chance to write a review about it . she is a really good singer , and that 's really good for a girl at such a young age . the first song i ever heard by her was `` leave ( get out ) '' and i liked it a little bit then , but now i really like it ! she may be a little too young to sing what she sings about , but the songs are still really good ! well , here it is : 1 . breezy - 10/10 a really interesting and creative beginning to the album ! she uses loud vocals in this song , too , which makes it stand out a lot . 2 . baby it 's you - 10/10 a great single ! this song is very sweet , and is pretty easy to understand in some parts . 3 . not that kinda girl - 10/10 this is one of her latest singles on her cd , and it 's a very nice song ! in this song she basically talks about what she is and what she is n't , and i really like music that does that sort of stuff . 4 . the happy song - 8/10 this one is ok , but not my favorite . the tune is a little too orignal in my opinion , but the lyrics are pretty good . 5 . homeboy - 10/10 great song , although i never really liked the word `` homeboy '' . but , the tune is very familiar and very pretty . 6 . city lights - 7.5/10 this one is n't that great , particularly because of the guys that come up some point in this song and start to rap . it just sounds a little werid , and i never liked rap . 7 . leave ( get out ) - 10/10 awesome single ! it 's one of the only songs on here that stands out , and it 's great to dance to ! the music video is pretty cool too , check it out ! 8 . use my shoulder - 7/10 ok , i think she could 've picked a better chorus tune than this one , cuz this one was just annoying and boring . but as always , the lyrics are good . 9 . never say goodbye - 10/10 beautiful ! this tune is very familiar ! it sounds to me like she did a remake of it or something , cuz it 's got a beautiful tune and beautiful lyrics . this song can also be used as a lullaby to put someone to sleep . : -p 10 . weak - 6/10 ugh ! this song is just soooooooo long and boring ! although the lyrics are always good , this song is just too original . 11 . keep on keepin ' on - 9/10 this is the first song on this ablum that 's written by jojo herself ! she did a great job on it , too . the lyrics are just so true ! 12 . sunshine - 9/10 another song that she wrote , and it 's just as good . i like the tune also , it 's very nice . 13 . yes or no - 9/10 this is a good one too , and another one that she wrote ( along with others , of course ) . i really like the beginning , it 's one of those beginnings you would'nt expect in a song lol . 14 . fairy tales - 7/10 i guess this is a nice ending , but the song itself is n't too great . i 'm sure she could 've made a better tune than this boring one . i 'm into pop and energetic music , not usually slow songs like this ! overall , cool cd . if you 've heard any of jojo 's music , i 'm sure you 'd like her album . also , keep and eye out for her new album titled `` the high road '' coming out on october 17th ! i ca n't wait to get it myself , especially after hearing her cool new song , `` too little too late ''