a review and a question first my review : the recorded legacy of mjh falls into roughly five categories . ( 1 ) his early 1928 recordings on the okeh label which comprise around 20 tracks . although they are quite listenable and of historical interest and importance they are not the most enjoyable of his recordings . ( 2 ) recordings from 1963 that are available on the rounder label . the sound quality of these recordings is somewhat disappointing . for that reason alone i do n't listen to them much except for the fact that they were heavily relied upon by people who transcribed his songs for instructional materials . ( 3 ) the library of congress recordings ( also from 1963 ) . these are perhaps the best . the sound quality is excellent and there is an informality to the sessions which makes it like having mjh as a house guest for the weekend determined to play you every song he knows . ( 4 ) the ( these ) vanguard recordings , which i think were recorded between 1967 and 1969 . these rival and sometimes surpass the library of congress recordings as far as the material goes . there is also a palpable sadness as you can detect a man near the end of his life aware of the fact that he may very well be making his final recordings . the audio engineers did a terrible job at vanguard for a good deal of these recordings . how can you screw up recording just one guy with a guitar ? if you try hard enough you can set the levels way off . that is how . ( 5 ) there is also a live mjh cd from vanguard . it 's sound quality is pretty good and it is endearing to hear mjh talk to an audience , but i find it less compelling material wise than the studio recordings . listening to mjh makes you want to piick up the guitar and learn to play like him . the good thing about this is that if you really want to you probably can . many of his songs have been transcribed and broken down in intructional books and dvds . after going through a `` beginning fingerpicking '' dvd by stefan grossman you are probably ready to take on mjh . go for it ! and now for my question : it 's not obvious to me from the vanguard website whether the boxed set is actually a newer digital remaster than the original digital re-masters from the mid 80s . as far as digital remasters go those ones were a bit of a disaster . when you put the disc into your player you would have to crank the volume on your stereo . as you might expect , the careless lack of attention to levels setting in the remastering process resulted in a mushy sounding guitar . i seem to remember that was also a problem with the vinyl vanguard lps , particularly the first one . hopefully these cds really are *new* remasters because most cds re-mastered these days are remastered quite well . my music management software for encoding mp3s has the capability of looking up cds in an online database . whenever i present it with copies of the old mid 1980s vanguard cds it recognizes them as possibly being from the boxed set , so i hesitate to spring for the `` new remasters '' without really knowing if they are indeed recently remastered . perhaps someone else could clear this up