such an awesome musical , but it was n't the cast i saw , but a great soundtrack ! i loved this musical when i went to see it in late march of 2006 . but unforutunately the only reason why i did n't give this 5 stars is because this soundtrack does n't have exactly what i saw on stage , and i loved that better . this is an awesome soundtrack though . when i went to see this musical , only 3 members of the original cast were still on the play : norbert leo butz as `` freddy , '' joanna gleason as `` muriel , '' and gregory jbara as `` andre . '' but , that night i went to see it , gergory jbara was substituted by dennis parlato , so i really only saw 2 original cast members . normally when you see a musical on stage or on film for the first time , you do n't really get the `` entire '' taste of the music part because you have to concentrate on the story , the characters , and what 's going on and what you 're looking at . sometimes its even hard to remember the music you heard until you listen to it again without visual aid , unless the performance of the songs were very memorable . and the song that really stuck out here was norbert 's performance of `` great big stuff . '' his physical comedy and every single word rang with crass wit that was over the top and just begs you for more . norbert leo butz plays `` freddy benson '' by the way . when i saw the play , johnathan pryce was playing the part of `` laurence jameson . '' and pryce is an actual british person , which kind of made his role more believable . his voice really fit the part . john lithgow at times appears to lose his accent in the soundtrack . john lithgow is n't bad for the part though , and when he has to impersonate an austrian doctor , he does an over the top job . dennis parlato ( jbara 's substitute ) i believe did a better job at playing a frenchman . his accent seemed less forced than gregory 's here . gregory brings a much more `` snooty '' personality to andre than dennis did . maybe that 's what was originally intended perhaps . mylinda hall played jolene oaks when i saw it , and in my opinion she did a far more fantastic job than sara gettelfinger . sara sounds a bit too `` mature '' and a little older too . jolene is supposed to be young , dumb , and full of fun ! now sherie rene scott does a fantastic job at playing `` christine colgate '' and better than rachel york , the girl i saw . rachel york was good , but sherie does a good job at being a ditz , like christine is supposed to be . she hits those high notes with ease and gives a nice flair of innocence in her role . `` dirty rotten scoundrels '' is a great musical adaptation to a movie , and i believe that you can buy the soundtrack before seeing the play but vice versa . however , if you are listening to the soundtrack before seeing the play , you better take `` a message from john lithgow '' very seriously because you wo n't enjoy the play as much if you see it after listening to the soundtrack . so do what john lithgow says !