what is with all of these lukewarm reviews ? i have no idea what people are thinking here . this is one of wendy and lisa 's strongest albums aside from eroica . maybe people just are n't into listening to lisa sing , since she does most of the vocals for this album . however , i am a huge fan of lisa , and any time i can get the opportunity to hear her sing , i cherish it . i think she has a marvelous and very sweet voice . some people have cited their first album was much stronger , but i disagree . the first album was way to & quot ; pop-ish & quot ; for my tastes , and they had n't really come into their own yet . it just did n't have the depth of eroica or girl bros. waterfall was ok , but it has nothing on & quot ; i 've got no strings & quot ; , & quot ; bring you back & quot ; , or & quot ; i 've got a big bowl of cherries & quot ; . and for the people complaining about jonathan 's death hanging too much over this album , this album was all about jonathan 's death ! the whole reason they wrote the thing was part of their grieving process . the album is dedicated to him ! get a clue ! to the reviewer ragging on the hidden track : that 's deidcated to trevor horn , who screwed the girls over when he was producing ( or more accurately , supposed to be producing ) their album & quot ; friendly fire & quot ; . he put it off for six years and then sucked the life out of it when he finally finished it and gave it back to them , rendering it a completely unplayable piece . ( lisa said it sounded like & quot ; an italian coffee table & quot ; after he got through with it . ) they did n't just throw that track in to be trendy or something , you know . if you 're going to do a review , at least get your history and your facts straight . for the record , i like the hidden track , with its & quot ; delta blues & quot ; sound , and the lyrics are pretty scathing . so anyway , do n't listen to these other yahoos here saying that gb is n't all that good . they 're wrong . girl bros is a great album . definitely one of their top ones . tchad blake did a great job on production , and the track lineup is varied and engaging . every song has great depth and excellent melody