by far the best camera obscura album yet this is simply one of the loveliest albums you will ever hope to hear . tracyanne campbell and her band mates in camera obscura have labored under the shadow of their fellow glasgow musicians belle and sebastian . it does n't help that like belle and sebastian their songs are more softly edged and lyrical than most other rock bands . but although there is a superficial resemblance between the two bands , especially when imogen campbell takes the vocals instead of murdoch , there are also significant differences . campbell is a far more delicate songwriter than stuart murdoch and her compositions are far more delicate . she lacks his brilliant quirkiness and astonishing gift for melody , though her songs frequently feature very fine melodies . but murdoch is probably the finest melodist in music today , so the comparison is unfair to her . on the other hand , most of campbell 's lyrics express emotions that i can relate to far more easily than murdoch 's . he may be the greater artist , but she lives pretty much where i do . camera obscura turned out two very good albums before this one , but this is easily their best effort yet . all of the songs are consistently excellent and campbell 's lovely voice graces everyone . she is a remarkably subtle singer , very gifted in her phrasing and expression . but as fine as she is as a singer , she is better as a songwriter . i like a lot of the cuts on this disc , in particular `` i need all the friends i can get '' and the truly sad `` dory previn , '' about the young mia farrow breaking up her and andre previn 's marriage . but my favorite cut by far is the extraordinary `` lloyd , i 'm ready to be heartbroken , '' named for one of lloyd cole 's best songs on his classic album rattlesnakes , `` are you ready to be heartbroken ? '' all in all , this is one of my favorite albums of the year so far . i think it will appeal strongly to anyone who loves belle and sebastian , but also to people who are drawn to mazzy star . the album possesses much of the same wistfulness and longing found on their albums . basically , if you love wonderfully subtle and magnificently fragile music , this is going to win your heart