magical , if not uneven , journey 'magical mystery tour ' is the most uneven of all the beatles ' albums . the familiar songs are magnificent , but while some of the originals are poor , they are always interesting . the american record company did a cut-and-paste on all of the beatles ' albums up to 'sgt . pepper ' , and , while it was to their great detriment , their intervention here was a masterstroke . because ep 's ( extended plays , records with five to seven songs , like a half-album ) are part and parcel of the uk and not the u.s. , this c.d . contains a jackpot of the beatles ' accomplished singles of '67 . without them there would n't be a full album as we know it . significantly , it was the only time the british record company later complied to the us format . to start , the title track is a fun , carnival anthem . it is looser and less serious than 'sgt . pepper ' . then , paul , subjectively matches himself with the perceptive and beautiful `` fool on the hill , '' with its admonitions from yet another memorable character , meant to look at the conventional world differently at the expense of alienation . however , it is john 's `` i am the walrus '' that pours out surreal imagery ( yet borrows a few references from lewis carroll ) that is the album 's highlight . from there the original songs are interesting , but substandard . `` flying '' makes an interesting instrumental with vocals added without any discernible words , but it seems more like an exercise than a good song . much in this vein , `` your mother should know , '' is a shadow of paul 's best vaudevillian efforts , including `` when i 'm sixty four '' and `` honey pie '' . the echoing vocal effects do n't do anything to contribute to the song , either . also , george contributes what may be his poorest beatles ' song , `` blue jay way '' . while it is understandable that spiritual awakening is the heart of all major religions , this song is done with unremarkable lyrics and sung with effects that make it sound like he 's a deep sea diver accompanied by drowzy cello patterns . the remarkable second half almost needs no elaboration . `` hello/goodbye '' heralds the second half with one of their catchiest songs . `` penny lane '' and `` strawberry fields forever '' made what many believe to be one of the best singles ever . the former is glorious and the latter is lennon at his philosophical best . `` all you need is love '' may seem somewhat dated , but it needs a revival ( and not just in credit card commercials ! ) it is still a remarkable and entertaining anthem and subjectively one of the beatles ' very best songs . `` baby you 're a rich man , '' the song 's b-side is no throw-away , either . clever and funny , like lennon , it is a catchy and mesmerizing piece . song for song , 'magical mystery tour ' is still essential . it represents their most uneven effort , but retains some of their best music . either way it always remains interesting .