a classic death cab album death cab for cutie 's follow up to their 1999 debut something about airplanes continues to build on their ethereal , atmospheric , unique , indie pop-rock sound . we have the facts is a more experimental , dynamic , rock album that still retains the previous album 's sentimentality . this is the album that transformed them into experimental indie rockers , but did n't launch them into the mainstream . this is a pure work of art , technically the band uses the chords in a very abstract and sparse way , the percussion is slow , and contemplating . some songs break out of that pattern and demonstrate a more full bodied , but not yet developed sound . most of the album relies on the musical production . ben gibbard 's voice is as haunting and beautiful as it ever was . he is given the perfect backdrop which complement his voice well . these songs work so well because of their minimalism . this album has a great sophistication to it , there is nothing else like it . the structures of the songs are n't traditional , so they seem refreshingly new and never get tiresome . each song is sequenced so that it works well against the last song , and the songwriting captures the emotional depth of the music perfectly . lyrically , the songs focus on loss and relationships . company calls epilogue is about a wedding gone sour , while 405 is about relationship . the wavy guitar melodies are catchy and loosen up the sometimes slow pace of the songs . this is an album that gradually builds on you after a couple listens . it 's not over the top , and requires multiple listens to capture the depth of the music . as a whole , the album works incredibly well , it 's cohesive and consistent . these songs have been crafted carefully and are painfully addictive once you begin to appreciate their sophistication . this is indie rock at it 's finest . the production takes this album up to new great heights . this album is similar to the forbidden love ep , which is also good . in my opinion , we have the facts , and the photo album demonstrate death cab 's early raw style , where everything was understated simply and beautifully , before the overproduced transatlanticism and plans . this is a great album to listen to if you want to relax , or just think . as they continue to develop as artists , it 's amazing to watch their sound change , for better or for worse . recommended .