z - my morning jacket the quintet , which forms my morning jacket , hail from louisville ky . the lead singer and band 's leader/founder has the unlikely name jim james . i have to assume that since jim is the shortened version for james , making his formal name james james , that his mother was drunk when she named him . j.j. founded the band in the late nineties with his cousin , guitarist john john . gotcha ! just kidding . cuzz 's name was john quaid . cuzz along with keyboardist danny cash , found the touring too much of a grind and left the band after the release of their third album . in addition to j.j. their current lineup consists of : two-tone tommy on bass , patrick hallahan on drums . late joiners bo koster ( keyboards ) and carl broemel ( guitar ) replaced quaid and cash . z my first impression of `z ' was that it was quite a bit different than my typical choice for aural enjoyment . my second impression was that it was not something for which i would lay down fifteen bucks . my last and continuing impression was that there was , indeed some worthwhile enjoyable music emanating from my cd player . trying to categorize the band 's music is challenging . i word have to say the overall the band play 's an indie sounding pop-rock with forays into progressive , folk and alternative , even psychedelia . their music tends to be happy and poppy with a lot of variation between songs . the album starts off with a song named `` wordless , '' which actually reminds me of the song `` angel '' from the romeo and juliet soundtrack but with a mild cha cha style beat . it 's probably because of j.j. 's strong singing on the song but for me the similarities are strong . `` it beats 4 u '' white stripes beginning does n't impress me , but picks up in the middle with j.j. 's reverberated vocals , a cello , some whistling , finishing somewhat psychedelic . track three , `` gideon , '' has some interesting moments with j.j. sounding like he 's singing through a tunnel yet his vocal remain strong . the song has some noticeably good keyboards and the tempo builds ending in a crescendo . `` what a wonderful man , '' is a short mulligan stew style song featuring tavern kind of vocals and a tinny guitar . '' track five is `` off the record . '' i did n't particularly like the beginning but about a third of the way through it becomes a fabulous bluesy , psychedelic instrumental . `` in the woods '' starts out with a circus hammond which recurs throughout augmenting an um pah pah circus beat . the seventh song is `` anytime , '' probably the rockingest if not the catchiest song on the album . the next song at just over six minutes is the penultimate longest song . other than some really good piano parts , that seems to be the most memorable part of `` lay low . '' the ninth track , `` knot come loose , '' is a forgettable ballad but the last song `` dondante is an eight minute masterpiece , by far the best and most refreshing song on the album . '' beginning inauspiciously with j.j. singing to a slow casual beat and subtle guitar , the song heats up after a slow start , immediately after a nice guitar solo into an explosion of sound , featuring j.j. 's soaring vocals and a whining guitar , ala post rock style , before gradually fading out to obscurity . conclusion i do n't think i 'd plunk down fifteen bucks for `` z '' because even though it 's a pretty good album , i would seldom if ever be in the mood for this confluence of eclectically influenced music , especially since i tend to gravitate to the heavier variety of music . however , i can not help but feel that it would appeal to a large segment of the music buying public . are you one of them ? final rating 4 stars .