stadium blow out for some born in the usa is the greatest the boss ever delivered , for others it 's the start of a steady decline . often mistaken for an overly patriotic statement this album found bruce suddenly among the ranks of eighties superstars as prince , madonna and michael jackson . born in the usa is the reason why some place the boss in the same category as jon bon jovi , born in the usa sounds as a stadium blow-out . yet lyrics as `` born down in a dead man 's town , the first kick i took was when i hit the ground , you end up like a dog that 's been beat too much , till you spend half your life just covering up '' could hardly be called patriotic or shallow . born in the usa was the follow-up for nebraska , a sparse demo-like recording . a lot of the material here was culled from those sessions and had the e-street bravura added to them . the title track was originally a one-man rockabilly outing but transformed in e-street synth-rock . the same treatment songs as dancing in the dark , glory days or i 'm on fire got . it 's that treatment that 's ultimately the weakness of the record . today born in the usa sounds hopelessly dated at times . the listener is forced to listen beyond the production for its depth and meaning . at the time of its release it was no different . a lot of the lyrics meanings tend to get lost in the poppy production that made it so successful . it is also one of springsteen least cohesive efforts . the styles on the album range from pop to rockabilly , from stadium rock to folk . for those who take the effort to dig deeper into the record there is a wealth in the songs that is rarely matched by other artists . as never before springsteen paints a picture of those of us who fail to be a part of the american dream . there is the obvious post-vietnam protest song of the title track , not allowing us to forget , and its attack on reaganism . but there is more . in i 'm on fire the character bears his soul as bruce sings , `` at night i wake up with the sheets soaking wet , and a freight train running through the , middle of my head , only you can cool my desire '' . sex being the means through which the character forgets his angst for just a moment . similar sentiments are found in dancing in the dark , bruce 's ultimate pop effort . `` man i 'm just tired and bored with myself '' screams the character , `` hey there baby , i could use just a little help '' , hardly a light and upbeat lyric . the people in springsteen 's songs seem to be stuck in their lives , unable to get ahead . the chances the american dream offers us are accessible only to just some of us . the rest are left behind `` just sitting back trying to recapture , a little of the glory of , well time slips away and leaves you with nothing mister but , boring stories of glory days ''