my favorite bob dylan album when green day changed up their sound around the mid-90 's and came through with a more slickly produced , commercial sound , a lot of their loyal fans did n't like it . but what they seemingly forgot to look at amidst their curious anger is that green day 's new stuff sounded really good ( 'warning ' especially ) , even though , yeah , it sounded quite a bit different . when it comes to bob dylan , die-hard fans compare an album like empire burlesque ( and probably a couple before it ) with the likes of highway 61 revisited and bringing it all back home , and a lot of them not only do n't like the change but are agitated with their sneaky hero , though his status as 'constantly-looked-up-to ' remains in tact . granted , as much as i like empire burlesque , it has to be careful with itself because as it goes from one song to the next you almost feel like you 're going to hear this as a soundtrack for a really syrupy cameron crowe movie , and that 's no good . but dylan 's sensibilty does n't go quite that far down the wimpy direction as he remains hard-hearted and overly introspective , even if fairly non-sensical at times . i love songs like 'tight connection to my heart ' 'i 'll remember you ' 'emotionally yours ' and 'never gon na be the same again . ' though the disk sounds slicker than usual , it 's a mistake to think the authenticity level dropped at all . if anything , he seems to be connecting with these songs at a higher degree than what is usual with him . another great thing about this album is that it 's pretty consistent . a couple of the tunes are slighter but none of them are bad and they 're all at least a litte above mediocre , with a high portion of it ranging from good to excellent . and that 's saying a lot for someone like dylan , who is so terribly inconsistent . not long ago i listend to planet waves and there are 2-3 outrageously listenable songs there but so much of it is so mediocre . i 've always thought dylan likes being disliked and that 's why he puts out such terrible songs intermingled with all the stuff that 's good . he does n't want people coming too close and that desire of his seems to draw his fans near all the more . i saw dylan in concert last year and he was on keyboards due to some kind of arthritis , or something . there was a guitar planted on the center of the stage and after every song dylan walked over , with his back hunched over and his shoulders sulking , his white warm-up suit and cowboy hat making him look like a modern-day texas circus hand . once there he would walk around the vicinity of the guitar and oftentimes the crowd 's screaming would peak , but every time dylan did not pick up the guitar and instead slowly meandered over to his keyboards . not once did he pick up the guitar that night but he led the audience to believe he would about 15-20 times . what a tease . on empire burlesque he seems to have softened up and not minded creating something nice all the way through . and those strange actions of his which somehow draw his worshipers ever nigher are absent here , and i 'm thankful for that