offensive , and hilarious i recently saw this guy live even though i was only familiar with `` what if that guy from smashing pumpkins lost his car keys '' . unless you are easily offended , go see him live . you wo n't regret it , he interacts with the audience a lot . i picked up this cd at the merch table after his show . lynch 's combination of acoustic guitar and innocently wicked lyrics will leave you in pain from laughing so hard . i like the fact that this was recorded before a live audience , because it captures the experience of seeing him at a show . that 's what led me to buy this instead of `` a little bit special '' . the audience reaction to the songs on `` superhero '' adds so much to the album . my personal favorites are : dr. stephen - i love the way you expect him to say a certain word , then he says something completely innocent instead . you have to listen to know what i 'm talking about . superhero - this song is a good example of the audience interaction at his shows . i like the audience-chosen superheroes , but i probably ca n't repeat the names here . what if that guy from smashing pumpkins lost his car keys - catchy title for a catchy song . whether you like the smashing pumpkins or not ( i do ) , you will find this short song hilarious . it 's a really great impression of billy corgan . mother 's day - also very short , but such an unexpected ending . taxi driver - oh man , i almost p*ssed myself the first time i heard this song ! it starts out as a folk song until you hear what the taxi driver said . totally politically incorrect , but so funny ! this is my current favorite track . best friends song - this duet with mark teich starts out friendly and quickly becomes a song about how the one friend wants to nail the other friend 's little sister . another one you have to hear to appreciate . i also like the bonus track at the end which contains `` lullaby ( live ) '' and `` special olympics ( live ) '' . lullaby is great , and explains to his daughter `` why mommy left us '' . this album is a good place to start if you like dark offensive humor