far under-rated this is one of my favorite zeppelin lps . musically , it 's very strong . you just have to respect a group of musicians who could have had a nice payday by turning out a clone of led zeppelin ii , but opted to do something very different . it 's no surprise that critics and some fans did n't like this one , because the band refused to play to type . but this is really a very strong session and shows the incredible extent of this band 's ability to play a lot of different types of music . there is a lot of acoustic work on this cd but a fair share of electric to please the electric crowd . i purchased this in lp format , complete with the cardboard `` wheel '' that turned inside the gatefold where you could match up pictures with holes in the outer jacket . anyone who listens to fm radio knows the immigrant song - what a great rocker . they opened with this when i saw them in march 1969 ... or was it 1970 ... on the tour supporting led zeppelin ii . friends has nice `` happy '' lyric but there 's a sinister sounding string backing behind the acoustic guitar and conga drums . unusual . celebration day is a typical zeppelin rocker that has a great , frantic slide guitar introduction . since i 've been loving you is one of the more powerful blues performances - black or white - that i have ever heard and i 've been listening seriously to music for about 37 years . this track alone is well worth the price of the cd . stunning . out on the tiles is another rocker . gallows pole is a fabulous bit of work on a traditional english folk song done with acoustic including banjo and violin . i love bonham 's drumming on this track , it provides a lot of motion and propels the piece beautifully at just the right point in the song . tangerine is an acoustic love ballad - single material . it 's a nice little composition . that 's the way is a sad little acoustic song about not being allowed to play with the boy next door ( i think ... it also seems to have an ecological message and a recognition that all that lives is born to die ) - i love this tune . bron y aur - more english folk music , a happy jig of sorts about growing old with the woman you love . hat 's off to harper - contrary to a prior reviewer , this is a great blues piece done with slide on acoustic as an homage to page 's buddy roy harper ( see stormcock on amazon.com ) i love the tremelo effect they put on plants vocal . this lyric eventually became custard pie on physical graffiti . page will be appearing with harper at a show this summer ( 2006 ) playing the entire stormcock release . it 's a bit pricey because it 's an import but if you can afford it it 's available here on amazon.com . page is a cameo guest on stormcock . knowelegeable folks know that roy harper sang have a cigar on pink floyd 's wish you were here . this man has trememdous respect from musicians in britain including mccartney , kate bush , page , dave gilmore and others . he 's a living legend in britain for people `` in the know '' . all of the tracks are good , since i 've been loving you and gallows pole are definitely my favorites . buy this at once !