it takes a few listens to fully appreciate , but it 's worth it ! being a fan of the divine comedy since they released casanova in 1996 , i was really looking forward to their latest album . much like a lot of previous releases by the dc , this album takes a few listens to fully appreciate it . when i first listened to it , i was disappointed with most of the early tracks and did n't listen beyond track 7 . however , repeated listens have definitely added a great deal to my enjoyment of this collection . track-by-track : 1 . to die a virgin - amusing lyrics , but the melody does n't do anything for me . opinion seems to be very divided on most of the tracks here , this being no exception . it sounds a bit flat to me . 2 . mother dear - an unusual country track with a catchy melody , but a far too repetitive chorus . musically it 's great , but the constant repetition of `` mother dear '' quickly becomes tiresome . 3 . diva lady - not bad , but hardly the strongest of melodies penned by neil hannon . annoyingly it sticks in your head - i 'd rather it did n't ! 4 . a lady of a certain age - beautiful melodies , wonderful instrumentation , and moving lyrics . i 've always liked hannon 's voice , but this is the kind of track his singing is best suited to . stunning . 5 . the light of day - a bright , upbeat melody , again with some beautiful instrumentation - strings and harpsichord really add to the classical rock style that the dc have always done so well . 6 . threesome - a charming 1 minute piano instrumental that provides a good break in the middle of the album . 7 . party fears two - elsewhere i 've hear people calling the plough pompous ; if any track sounds pompous , it is this one . i have n't heard the original but the strings are overdone for a riff that is n't all that special . the chorus is better than the verse , but this just sounds out of place here . 8 . arthur c. clarke 's mysterious world - this one 's quite odd . i did n't expect to like it at all but it really grows on you . great lyrics , a very enjoyable melody and plenty of decoration around the various melodies . very well composed indeed . 9 . the plough - as i mentioned earlier , i could n't disagree more with the notion that this track sounds pompous . it 's an absolute masterpiece . a wonderful build-up in each verse and throughout the track . a similar feel to the certainty of chance or freedom road , this is one of the best tracks i have ever heard from the dc . 10 . count grassi 's passage over piedmont - the opening melody links well from the plough . great melodies throughout , an unusual mix of spoken/sung lyrics , not dissimilar to the booklovers - but much easier to hear more than a few times over . very special , and unique ! 11 . snowball in negative - yet again , the orchestral arrangements are superb . interesting contrast between the vocal sections and the piano solos , showing that threesome was n't such an anomaly after all . the ending is a little unexpected and slightly drawn out , but this track wraps up the album well . apart from the first few tracks , this is possibly the best dc album i 've ever heard . it 's right up there with promenade and fin de siecle and is a welcome reminder that hannon is highly unlikely to lose his touch anytime soon . beautiful