how strange inncocence- explosions in the sky wow i just do n't know where to start with this album.well , about the album itself : i think this is best explained by the band , so here 's what they think- `` how strange , innocence '' was our first attempt at an album . we recorded it in january 2000 in austin : recording took two days , mixing one day , mastering one day . altogether we pressed 300 cd-r copies of this album ... we had been a band about seven months when we recorded these songs . a lot of feelings ( excitement/confusion/glimpses of visions/waking dreams/inability to play instruments ) went into this record , but we did n't quite know what to do with those feelings , none of us had even really been in a studio before , and it shows in the recording , the songs show it , too -- it 's a young record . there are no tricks in it . there 's a lightness in a few of the songs that we probably wo n't reach again . it sounds strange to say that instrumental songs are about something , but to us these songs were/are about such things as a couple walking through the park on a winter day , a child playing on 70 's shag carpet , the story of a boy hero leading a revolution against the tyranny of the coal mines . we 've had a bit of a love/embarrassment relationship with the record . at certain points along the way several of us wanted to buy back all the copies and burn them . listening now to this album , it almost seems like a different band composed of four different people . we finally feel okay in re-releasing it , probably because we 've now made a couple of records that are recorded better and that are closer to our visions for them . anyway , we truly appreciate anyone who is interested and listening . thank you . '' that was on the cd itself- hope you found that helpful . i like this cd for two reasons . 1.the wonderful way explosions in the sky can tell a story through their instruments . 2.this album has a distinct sound- one all its own . if you did n't like explosions in the sky before , you will once you listen to this album . -sherman .