wow ! this is really good stuff ! winterheart 's guild ( 2003 ) . sonata arctica 's third studio album . unlike most people on this site apparently , i do n't hate power metal . i 'm not one who slags the whole genre off upon the discovery of other music like progressive rock and other styles like a lot of people do . when i first came across the genre years ago , i was in heaven . there were a lot of really cool albums by bands like stratovarius , labyrinth , dream evil , blind guardian , primal fear , hammerfall , and others that brought forth the nostalgic sounds of some of my favorite 80s metal bands , though with the benefit of modern production technology . sure , the subject matter among many of these bands can come across as goofy ( almost bearing a manowar quality at times ) , but most people seem to miss the point that none of it is meant to be taken seriously . of course , my interest in power metal has waned since then , but only because after a while , most of the bands i came across started to sound a lot alike with very little to separate them apart from others and make me want to come back for more . it seemed like all the bands had the same machine-gun double bass drumming , malmsteen-inspired guitar solos , harpsichord keyboard soloing , and geoff tate-inspired singing . in short , i needed more _variety_ . thankfully , bands like sonata arctica , kamelot , and nightwish are around to show the rest how to make a good , memorable band . to me , sonata arctica sounds like a bigger , better , more realized stratovarius . i 'd known about the band for a while , and i 've always loved the song 'power of one ' off of silence ( 2001 ) which was my first introduction to them . i finally saw one of their albums in the store the other day , and since i 'm always looking for good music , i figured `` why not ? '' . after listening to this album several times now , i can honestly say that this was one of the best purchases i 've made all year . while i do like stratovarius , the problem i had with them is that their albums would have a couple of really outstanding songs on them , followed by several by-the-numbers tracks which they 've formulated to death over and over again . sonata arctica has no problems like this . this band takes stratovarius 's sound as a main template , and infuses their own creative songwriting melodies and lyrical topics into it , creating a very memorable and varitable collection of songs . their singer has that familiar finnish accent , though it 's combined with a real passionate performance . the guitarist always seems to play the right riff at the right time , varying it up from soulfull crunchy riffs to great solos that bring glen tipton of judas priest to mind . keyboards go from solo-esque battles to goosebump-inducing atmospheric passages that compliment the melodies . picking out favorite tracks on this album is a very difficult thing to do , but the ones that seem to stand out the most are 'apbe ' , 'gravenimage ' , 'the cage ' , 'silver tongue ' , 'champaign bath ' , and 'broken ' . 'apbe ' and 'the cage ' are two of the fast speed metal tracks , while 'gravenimage ' and 'broken ' both sport unique , melodic overtones to them . 'champaign bath ' is fast , fun metal that takes you for a hellova ride . then there 's two nice ballads to top the album off : 'the misery ' and 'draw me ' . these ballads thankfully are n't syrup-drenched like a lot of ballads can get . there are n't any bad tracks in the bunch , and there 's something to please anyone that is looking for variety . replayability : high . makes for a perfect power metal fix . wg proved to be a great starting point for me , and i highly suggest anyone else who sees this album in the stores to give it a shot . they also have a new album out , reckoning night ( 2005 ) as well as two earlier albums , ecliptica ( 1999 ) and silence , which many consider their best work . if wg is any indication , then i ca n't wait any longer to hit up on the other albums . one of the lyrics in the song 'gravenimage ' asks `` can i still recognize a beautiful melody ? '' . yes , you certainly can , and you 're certainly one of the best bands in the business at it . other recommendations : -any other sonata arctica album . all are outstanding . ( judging by the soundclips ) -'visions ' by stratovarius -'epica ' and 'the black halo ' by kamelot -'oceanborne ' , 'wishmaster ' , and 'century child ' by nightwis