marvellous fun and great singing i have to say that i prefer handel 's tamerlano for musical reasons . however , vivaldi 's opera on the same subject is very enjoyable and entertaining . like it has been said of the operas of haydn , vivaldi 's operas are not great operas , but they do contain great music . europa galante , directed from the 1st violin by fabio biondi , is in great form and i 've never heard them play better . i have their older recording of handel 's opera poro , and i enjoyed that one , too . the singers here are an excellent ensemble . i like the dark and expressive voice of ildebrando d'arcangelo - he was also marvellous as leporello in gardiner 's don giovanni . david daniels is fantastic , as usual , and he is possibly the best operatic countertenor in the world at the moment . patrizia ciofi is best heard and not seen - sweet voice coming from a madwoman ( check out the dvd ! ) . vivica genaux has been hyped to within a centimetre of her life recently . she has a nice flexible mezzo voice . a little too much vibrato for my tastes and she looks like a chipmunk when she attacks coloratura passages . marijana mijanovic sings well - she was excellent as the neurotic penelope in the christie / l.a.f . dvd of monteverdi 's il ritorno d'ulisse in patria . she is alarmingly thin - possible health problems ? she does n't engage with the conductor or orchestra at all in the dvd - the only singer who does n't . elina garanca looks beautiful ( and healthy ! ) and sings beautifully . she has a lovely contralto voice . i hope i see and hear more from this artist in the future . i am not a big fan of vivaldi 's operas - i enjoy them as collections of arias . i wonder how well bajazet worked on stage ? i 'd love to have a dvd of this production , i would like to see how a vivaldi opera works on stage . vivaldi 's operas do n't have imaginative scorings and the orchestral passages are fairly prosaic . a lot of what goes on in the vivaldi operas i 've heard ( i have a few in my cd collection ) is pretty routine . however , i am open minded on the subject and i would like to see how well a vivaldi opera works on stage .