magical chiming scree ; a masterpiece ; an aural orgasm ! mid eighties sst indie rock classic ! this was the very first sonic youth album i owned . i got the vinyl in 87 at the age of 15 and it blew my mind and has ever since ! the best song on the album in my opinion , and one of sonic youth 's best songs period is `` expressway to yr skull , '' aka `` madonna , sean and me , '' aka `` the crucifixion of sean penn . '' whatever title you prefer , this song is a beautiful , powerful masterpiece that hits you in the soul every time . it 's the most special melodic guitar masterpiece i have ever heard . chiming scree infused with bliss , it builds to a mind melting crescendo and goes completely over the top , then the way the bass , drums and guitar work together into the mind bending recovery is aural art for sure . if you are lucky enough to hear it live you are in for a religous experience . on the vinyl it ended side 2 with a locked groove , meaning that when your turntable needle reached the end of the song instead of running out and ending it went around in a circle , playing the droning end of the song forever or until you turn it off . while `` expressway '' is a highlight , the rest of the album is awesome as well . lyrically and sonically one of the things the sonics were into at the time this was recorded was the psychology and mythos surrounding the manson family and that era , but that is only one aspect of this album . another interesting thing about this album is the atmosphere it creates ; many of the songs are different from one another sonically , yet the album is cohesive . songs like `` in the kingdom # 19 , '' with its narrative style and crazy stuff going on in the background evoking thoughts of d.boon 's tragic death , and `` marilyn moore , '' and `` shadow of a doubt '' just transport you atmospherically . i have recommended this album to many new listeners of sy , some find that they do n't like it as much as `` sister '' at first , because many of the songs are n't as `` immediately accessible '' as the gems of that album , but with more listens it rewards them , it grows on them and they like it as much or more . bublegum is a cover , i believe of an old kim fowley song and was not on the original release , but was a b-side ( of the starpower single if i remember correctly ) added in the cd age . it seems somewhat out of place , especially following expressway . in any event , this recording is one of sy 's best , and in my opinion one of the best period . buy it , it 's magical .