i like ac/dc but i hate this i like most of ac/dc 's music , but i ca n't stand their latest album stiff upper lip . stiff upper lip is the only ac/dc album where you can play it all the way through , and not even hear one good song . stiff upper lip does n't even come close to being as good as back in black or highway to hell . every song on it just bugs the heck out of me . listening to one song off this album is enough to test my patience ; but enduring all 12 of these musical abominations is enough to drive me crazy ! the overall sound is very similar to their earlier albums like highway to hell or back in black . but ... those cds had variety , they were semi original , and they were actually pretty good . this cd is just completely worthless . i have heard some cra ppy cds in my lifetime , but none of them were more pain to listen to than this . the vocalist sounds about 10 times worse than he did on their earlier albums , the music is chunky , repetitive , dull , and boring , and most of the songs sound the same . stiff upper lip is so bland and dull sounding that it sounds more like the monotonous droning of an electric fan than a rock n roll band . the music is so repetitive and similar sounding that its more like listening to the same annoying song for 60 minutes than 12 separate tracks . this cd is just unbelievaby terrible . it is a disgrace to this band 's legacy , and the band members should be embarrased by it . oh well , i guess they probably only made this album because they needed to fulfill their record contract , so i guess they do n't care about how awful it is anyway . all i can tell you potential buyers is to stay as far away from this piece of garbage as possible . it is a total piece of cr ap and it is not fit to listen to . go buy a good ac/dc cd like let there be rock , high voltage , powerage , highway to hell , or back in black . stiff upper lip suc ks so hard it leaves a big purple bruise . it 's so awful i 'd rather listen to the new nickelback cd than this !