everyone has an off day ... and album . i am a big brian setzer fan going back to the stray cats . he quite frankly is one of the few artists out there whose music is just fun , lively , and makes you feel `` hey man , this is music '' . setzer is as talented on the guitar as jerry lee lewis is on the piano and in my mind no better compliment can be paid to a musician . every new iteration of brian setzer has been enjoyable : stray cats , to the swing of the dirty boogie , to the rockabilly of the comeback special , and the superb tribute to sun records . but , he missed it on this cd . the song writing is silly and sophmoric . i do not expect to find the meaning of life hidden behind the lyrics found in setzer 's cds but the majority of songs on this cd have all the same elements . some songs are riddled with rhymes children in the first grade use , and are repeated endlessly . such as in the song `` bad bad girl in a bad bad world '' . for example here is a small snippet out of the song mentioned before : she 's a bad bad girl in a bad bad world a bad bad girl in a bad bad world it 's not her fault she 's a bad bad world it 's so sad it 's a sad sad world she 's a bad bad girl in a bad bad world a bad bad girl in a bad bad world it 's not her fault she 's a bad bad world she 's a bad bad , bad bad , bad bad , bad bad girl what garbage ! by the end of the little chorus you just want to give the cd a toss . many of his songs are riddled with the disjointed tempo changes found in punk music . setzer has been able to do this subtly in the past without calling attention to it , but there are a few songs on here that just sound confused . definately not a setzer trait . there has never been a setzer song that i absolutely can not stand , until `` really rockabilly '' and `` bad bad girl '' . the first two bad songs he has done on the same disc . there is not one single song on here that compares favorably with any other of his songs that have come before . i have to mention that i hold setzer to a very high standard , which until now he has never fallen short of . this cd is still far better than 95 % of the crap that is being released in today 's market . to summarize i would encourage setzer to get beyond this cd , and return to his thrown a top the music landscape