the end of jennifer lopez wow . i did n't know music could get this bad . i just did n't . no words can describe how awful this cd is , but criticizing it is too easy . let me list the reasons why you should not buy this travesty of an album ( even the word `` album '' is used loosely - at best , this collection resembles a group of theme songs from various c-grade telenovela series ) : 1 . the voice : there is no voice . granted , jlo was never known for her vocal ability , but having taken vocal lessons and practice from husband marc antony , one would think she would sound better , but no . if anything , jennifers ' weak voice is showcased as being even more weak as she literally whines her way through over an hour of the most godawful caterwauling ever heard this side of the nanjing massacre . 2 . the music : there is no music . the first single `` que hiciste '' has some spanish sounding instruments thrown in for that `` authentic mexican experience '' ( yeah , right ) , but from then on out , its one disgusting ballad after the other . there is no melody , and at one point , i was wishing that some poor b-side from her `` on the 6 '' album would pop up to put me out of my misery . let it be clear - the music on this is non-existent , and im not just saying that for effect . 3 . the accent : jlo is not a genuine native spanish speaker , but she has definitely worked on her accent . however , its a bit sad when beyonce 's new spanish version of `` irreplaceable '' sounds more authentic than anything on this godforsaken cd . jennifer sounds very forced and gimmicky here , enunciating her rs and ts with gusto and a very misplaced conviction . the efforts only lead to what one can call an overwhelming sense of underwhelmingness ( the term has come into existence upon the release of this cd ) jennifer , what went wrong ? you had the best producers ( though , when you think of it , marc antony 's only claim to fame in the us is his horrendous `` you sang to me '' ) and enough moolah to pull this off . inexcusable . more than that , it proves that the global spanish revolution that sort of began in the late 90s with the ricky martin craze , is definitely over . jennifer is done with , and when i start respecting her lesser , more vapid counterparts such as thalia , its a sad day indeed . true spanish language albums have class stamped upon them - the only shining example of this is 'fijacion oral vol 1 ' by our girl shakira . this album still gives me goosebumps two years past its ' release . 'coma ama una mujer ' is a failed effort for all concerned . and if you respect music and your money , you will definitely need to look elsewhere for fulfilment . vaya con dios , jl