i love this album ! that 's right , i said it . i love this album , and yet i still give it two stars . let me explain why . i am rating this album as i would rate any legitimate album . i do this because i understand that shatner was being completely serious about this album , and the dramatic interpretations of the two songs/poems/monologues fused together are supposed to symbolize the duality of man , and blah , blah , blah . i get all of that . but still , the album is horrendous . as you listen to it , you can not help but firmly believe that shatner thinks he 's pulling off some great artistic feat with this album . however , he is wrong . horribly wrong . the arrangement of each `` song '' is sub-par , the backing band of studio musicians on the album has no life , and then there 's shatner himself . with his trademark delivery , shatner leaves his indelible mark all over every track , and that 's really not such a good thing . this album would be utterly forgettable , if not for the fact that it is such a train wreck that it is an absolute must-have . let me write that again in bold for the folks that may have skipped over this review : this album would be utterly forgettable , if not for the fact that it is such a train wreck that it is an absolute must-have . i actually bought this cd as a british import twelve years ago for twenty bucks , long before it was in print on cd in the states , and even now , when i could have bought it for half the price , it is still worth every penny i paid for it all those years ago . you see , whenever i 'm feeling blue , i pop the shatner into my cd player , and everything gets a little bit better . it never fails to bring a smile to my face , especially mr. tambourine man and a very good year . honestly , this cd is glorious in it 's sheer awfulness . it is so good on such a low level that it has forced me to create a new word to fully describe it : shatnerrific . you can not go wrong buying this cd . trust me on this one . it 's my favorite music purchase ever . no , seriously . *ever*..