everyone whos ever reveiwed this is a idiot ok so i was reading the reveiw for this album and i heard a lot of people talkin trash , and a lot of people talkin candy canes and butterflys . so im here to set the record straight . first of all , to all the folks who think this band is so great ... yes in the early years they had a good sound , and their songs ant bad , but they really sold out . you can walk into any mall right now and find sum 12 year old wearing a casualties shirt , or hat , or wallet , or patch , or toilet seat . they did the warped tour for gods sack . they obviously are worried more about money and fame then music . this has turned into teenybopper music , the same little @ # ! ^ 's that listen to blink 182 and sum 41 have this album . they go into a hot topic and buy it on cd with their mommys credit card , along with a 50 dollar pair of pants that look like sumone made in a clown college . this is not a great punk band , its punk for yuppies . and to all the people that think its the worst band ever ... i am so sick of hearing idiots that think they know everything about punk trashing the casualties saying they are fashion punks ... wether you wunna believe it or not punk has always had to do with clothes ... look at the new york dolls , alice cooper , richard hell , or the sex pistols . they all had a look , a image , and they started this whole thing . `` they said hey richard are you going to go out tonight , i said i am unsertent , i ant feeling to right . but i wriped up my shirt , watched the mirror and flirt , yeah im going to go out , out into sight. '' . and im sick of hearing about how they dont know how to play ... no punk bands know how to play , one of the reasons that punk is so great is that anyone can pick up a guitar or a drum set and start a group . so in closing , your all idiots that know nothing about punk music , old or new . your opinions reflect your ignorance about the punk scene and non of you should ever call your selves punks .