much better that anything tool ever did yeah , man . i used to be like really stupid . i got bad grades in school . but then i started listening to modest mouse 's music and i was like , `` whoa ! '' and now i 'm really smart , and no one is smarter than me in my whole school , including the teachers ! they should market `` lonesome crowded west '' on tv as a way to get kids to do better in school , because it makes you intelligent . it 's a scientific fact ! all you people who give this album a negative review whould go and listen again , because some times you have to listen more than once . and if you still do n't get it after like 30 listens , then listen 30 more , because listening that much to a rock and roll band is in no way pathetic . besides , being a modest mouse fan makes you a card carrying member of the special club , where you get to talk about modest mouse and the sophistication and about how isaac brock 's childhood was so tragic and nothing like that has ever happened to anyone else and how now he 's my god and astrology and modest mouse chatrooms and modest mouse t-shirts and modest mouse cds and books off the modest mouse website and how horrible capitalism is . do n't you wan na be a member of the club ? this cd has changed my life completely . i used to have no friends and i spent a lot of time in my parent 's basement . and now ... . well , i still do n't have friends and i live in my parent 's basement , but the people online understand that i `` get '' how modest mouse 's music is an excellent replacement for the voids in my life that otherwise would have been filled with girlfriends and thinking ( yuch ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ) . and that one song where isaac says , `` my thoughts were n't so loud '' is like , so true , because we live in a democracy which just let 's the man hold isaac back . what we need to do is set up socialism , with isaac at the top and he 'll provide for the rest of us and we never have to get jobs because he 's so talented . he 's like , outgrown his fans , too . except me . like , some days , i listen to `` this is a long drive for someone with nothing to think about '' which is an awesome title because it 's so long it 's like a sentence and i 'm so cool and smart because i get that . well , i did n't really get that on my own , but i was the one who pushed the buttons while i was on the internet , in between visits to the modest mouse messageboard of course . but some days , i listen to the album and cry out in wonder at the height of my sophistication for listening and enjoying such a unique group , and i feel so accomplished and brilliant and that is n't a waste of a day at all . and then i go onto another album , like `` the moon and antarctica '' ( i did n't even know you could seen the moon from down there ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ) and i link all the geographcial and astronomical references and i learn a lot that week . and then i listen to that bootleg i got and then the dvd i got off ebay from another guy who `` gets modest mouse '' and suddenly i 've spent a year putting all these things together from the lyrics and i 'm like `` whoa , i thought i was smart before , but now i 'm really smart , '' you know , because i 've spent so much time listening to modest mouse and talking about modest mouse on the internet , and suddenly it 's been , like five years , which is perfect because that 's how often my gods put out an album . it 's odd i have n't realized yet that i 've completely dedicated myself to a rock band and all my money , opportunity , and life have been paid over to modest mouse . it 's just a good thing that i think for myself and that i 'm so different from all the other modest mouse fans that do the exact same thing i do . yep , good thing . j5w2k9 @ hotmail.com