omglolz , he said `` boobies . '' what 's wrong with bhg ? besides everything ? is it possible for them to write more than one good song in their pathetic lives ? my sister burned this cd from a friend , most likely because she likes the bad touch song , and i 've been the one having to hear it in the morning when she 's getting ready for school . it 's pathetic . i do n't know how much i can stress the word `` pathetic '' , but it 's the only way to fully describe it . out of 18 tracks , there 's one , count it , one good song , `` the inevitable return of the great white dope '' , because it 's nothing like their other songs . everything else on this album is just like `` fire water burn '' , `` the bad touch '' , `` hell yeah '' , you get the picture . palm-muted , droning , songs with extremely explicit lyrics , which is the only reason people will remember them . is n't it about time to come out of the 13-16 year old stage ? having lyrics about sex wo n't get you any . bands like blink-182 , sum 41 , and system of a down have funny songs , but they have their limits . about the `` music '' : 1 ) palm-muting does n't make a song good . i get it . you can palm-mute . so can most people who play guitar or bass . 2 ) make your music more diverse and varied , or at least change your patterns . elastica 's self-titled album has 4-chord patterns , except they play faster , and the songs are n't much longer than two and a half minutes long ( not that i 'm comparing bhg to elastica ) . 3 ) do what you do `` best '' , and do n't try metal . `` magna cum nada '' is bhg 's horrible attempt to make something metal-ish . stop . the problem with bloodhound gang is that they just wo n't die . people like them somehow , and so they feel compelled to squeeze out more and more crap that gets worse and worse as it progresses , not saying that they were ever good . why do n't we go through the songs and rate them , shall we ? 1 . i hope you die : see track 15 2 . the inevitable return of the great white dope : best song by bhg , but still not great . 3 . mama 's boy : see track 15 4 . three point one four : see track 15 5 . mope : see track 15 6 . yummy down on this : see track 15 catch my drift yet ? i do n't think i can fully show my displeasure with words . `` 1 star , because 0 is not an option '' is exactly correct . people , if you actually want bloodhound gang , copy it from someone . maybe if they see their record sales go down , they 'll actually think about quitting . p.s . track 15 is called `` this is stupid .