over-zealous fans frequently overrate mediocre albums i live in buffalo and i 'm a big prog rock fan ; so when i saw this cd at the library , i knew i had to give it a free listen . but make no mistake - this cd under-delivers on many levels . i always wanted asia to be a great band - it had my favorite guitar player ( steve howe ) , a top-shelf drummer ( carl palmer ) , and a proven bass player/vocalist who was up to the task ( john wetton ) . but there was always a bit too much `` pop '' , simplicity and repetition in their music to totally engage me . hey , progressive rock is mostly about `` different '' , complexity and change , right ? asia was a progressive-pop band ( akin to the later albums of todd rundgren 's utopia ) that made good music , but did n't really pioneer much of anything . same with this cd . there 's little here that 's new or better than the studio versions of the songs . palmer 's long drum solo got boring after a while . steve 's acoustic solos can be found on other yes recordings , and done much better there - here , the recording quality is so bad that it sounds like he 's playing tuned rubber bands at times . ( honestly , i remember hearing better fidelity from my old kenner close'n'play ! ) o.k. , it was cool to hear steve express his pleasure at playing in buffalo again ! but the so-called `` keyboard solo '' by geoff downs was underwhelming to say the least , and reinforced my suspicion that he was sort of the weak link in this group of otherwise great prog virtuosos . i guess if one loves a band too much , they can blindly overlook some shortcomings on almost any cd by that band , and that 's just fine for those people . however , the objective reality of this cd 's value comes creeping in on many other 's existing reviews : namely , the production quality is sub-par ( to the point of being annoying at times ) ; the vocals and harmonies are often off-key ( you really should n't have to wince this much during 79 minutes of music ! ) ; this is clearly a single disk album that was issued on 2 disks for some reason ; the packaging and liner notes are scant ; and the performance just does n't add much to the studio versions . this is for asia completists only . asia did make a solid 5-star progressive-pop cd with their first studio album . i love it . but they never improved upon it , and never stretched out into new territory . perhaps this 1982 live recording exposes some of the weaknesses that kept this potential supergroup from going from `` good '' to `` great '' . support your local library . ( and in this case , save some cash ! )