offical hip-hop amazon reviewer well iv read through a few reviews now , some good , some totaly wierd and none understanding , some dont know what they'v even on about but i read the review by g funkinn which i think is 3rd down . im a huge tupac fan and will defend his reputation if anyone dare try portray him as something other then a true hip-hop legend . i was realy looking forward to writing this review about this great album as it 's easly one of my best if not my best , but i was so shocked to see some write such a detailed review on this album ( someone love 's this album as much as me ) g funkinn you'v done a brilliant job on reviewing this album and made me want to buy another copy incase anything happened to the one iv got.. .. .. i 'd just like to add what the story line of the best song on the album `` tear drops and closed caskets '' the song is so well writen when listening to it your mind fallows the song and make you feel like your reading a book due to the way the songs writen , after its finished it makes you feel like after you have just watched a realy good film and you get that feeling inside that make you feel like what you'v just watch is actualy one of your own memories ( not mean that you have had happen to you what the songs lyrics are about but more that it 's such a graphic song ) the rhyming of the word is nearly unbelievable . you do tend to hear the same thing been rhymed alot in songs ie : im a g from cpt and other things that ryhme with g or e , but not in this song the song start 's by intruducing the 3 mean characters which are two friends called little moe and little trigga and a woman called little precious . it tells you how prcious is a getto girl and wont even bother with you unless you have a nice car and money , litle trigga 's heart broken by the fact he 's got no money and he want precious to be with him . so he meets up with his best friend little moe and plot to kill the two neibourgh hood deals and steal there drugs and money . they complete there mission and little trigga is seen as a big time man of the getto . in the second vurse it goes on to tell you how precious and trigga are together and have a baby on the way but little known to trigga but his best friend lil moe has been seeing precious and it would apear that them two are togeher , after people see both precious and moe together start talking and trigga finds out . 3rd vurse goes on to say that now moe and trig are now enemys and precious is to doped up on drugs not to notice , the song ends with the lyrics. `` small time dealing to selling keys , i cant believe the sh** there telling me , they opened fire 3 bodys dropped so call the cops , precious little moe and trig , tear drops and closed caskets '' . the way the stories is told is as if tupac and the outlaws are rapping to each other about the stories as if it happened and they had heard about it . in the other views people have said that the outlawz have spoiled this album but i strongly disacree with these comment . the outlawz when i first heard this album i felt the same way and thought the outlawz maded this album not as good as it could of been but after a few years of owning the album you start too realise what the outlawz are saying , too the commen listener poeple do tend to get hook up in the beat and with tupac been on the album alot of people only start properly listening when pac starts speaking . after owning the album for some time i started to notice the outlawz and although there lyrics can be spitted out in a fast and sometimes non-understandible style people dont actualy hear the words , if you do buy this album please dont just listen to pacs word but also listen to the outlawz because true listeners with a good ear for proper hiphop will notice the talent and lyricial skill of the outlawz and infact in a few song i find that they are very much on the same level as pac . what more can i say . if you dont buy the album please down load the song tear dropz and close caskets i actualy rate this 5 stars im not sure why it 's only put a 1 star rating ? ? ?