so let down i normally do n't write reviews that are negative on amazon because they usually get nothing but negative feedback/unhelpful votes or whatever . so i shall try to be as fair as possible . i got leonard cohen 's compilation `` i 'm your man '' and there is this amazing , incredible rendition of `` if it be your will '' that antony does . it was my favorite track on this record and the whole leonard cohen tribute concert in general , 'come so far for beauty ' is really good . `` if it be your will '' was performed with such a soulful voice and i loved how it built inself until the end with the background vocals wailing and him stating the title words over and over . so i went to the library and waited a month to borrow this debut record by antony ; it was always checked out or on reserve . yes , it was the same voice , and yes , i will say , antony does have a very interesting and even somewhat beautiful voice . the album 's sleeve put me off at first ( and continued to do so ) . i am someone who often puts music together with its cover art ( check out this mortal coil 's 'song to the siren ' with that perfect 23 envelope sleeve , for example ) . so i listened to this album a few times and was put off by the silly lyrics that actually made me grimace and cringe . `` mr muscles forcing bursting stingy little thingy into me . . . '' or `` i am so very happy , so please hit me '' or `` river of sorrow , do n't swallow '' or the breathy way he says the word `` twilight '' do n't know , it just made a little uncomfortable . so it seemed i did n't like the record . then i read an article in interview magazine with elton john about new music in 2005 , he was praising antony 's second record . so i gave it another try and after three songs , could n't handle it anymore . the images of the cd and the things he sings about or his presentation of the words ruin it . maybe if he just sang songs by poets like leonard cohen it would be better ? in the elton john article , he said antony sings a lot about sexuality , which i gathered from the lyrics , and but he presents his sexuality in such a pathetic way that almost says `` if you do n't like me , or if you are not drawn to this sad life i am presenting to you , it 's because you do n't like gay/transgendered people '' . in my case , that could n't be further from the truth . i would not recommend this record to anyone , but when i mention it to people , i ca n't help but say how much i loved `` if it be your will '' and how disappointed i was in his solo effort .