no more soundtracks mr. eastwood , please ! i tried not to give it any stars , which is what it deserves . i have a difficult time understanding why mr. eastwood continues to write the soundtrack to the films he 's involved in . there are composers like harry gregson-williams , elliot goldenthal , james newton howard , david julyan , mark isham , etc ... that can create something meaningful and 10 times more advanced than what `` dirty harry '' can create . would the director and executives of another major motion picture accept a soundtrack of this quality ? i hated mystic river 's soundtrack as well . i think he got lucky with million dollar baby . not much music that might have ruined the acting , and no inspirational music when she is winning all the fights , unlike the rocky movies . i am very aware that he does n't posess the education , training , and experience that all of the major hollywood composers do . but he should stick to acting and directing . he has proven himself to be very good at both of those with the awards he has recieved in his lifetime . i think he is just trying to show off at how much he can contribute to a movie . and his `` music '' is nothing noteworthy at all , in my opinion . while his attempt to write another score is surprising , it leaves so much to be desired in a film like flags of our fathers . it 's a tremendous film , with an interesting story , great characters , great acting , and authentic battle scenes , much like saving private ryan ( john williams ) . they have a meaningful well-made film ready for a composer to add thier ideas and talents to , and make a great movie-going experience . and then we get the same boring nursery rhyme style melody and chord progression over and over and over again . and then on top of that , it 's rudementally orchestrated between guitar , piano , and trumpet with those long droning strings . granted , not much to work with for lennie niehaus who orchestrated it . i got so sick of it on just one viewing only . and the scene when the son is looking at the pictures and the medal , as stupidly simple as that melody is , i think it 's completely intrusive in that scene . it ruined a moment that could have been very moving with anything different musically , or maybe no music at all . i believe everyone has a job when making a movie , and when one person is doing too much , the quality suffers . and that 's if clint eastwood was an educated composer , which he is n't . no one can deny that , not even him . as i mentioned before there are so many composers out there that could have made that film even more moving and powerful . i think that the executives looked the other way and let something like this happen because of a big name like clint eastwood . film music is an evolving art form constantly struggling to get the recognition it deserves . and with good moives being made that are horribly scored in this way , it 's not helping the film music world at all . it is admirable for someone to try new things and contribute in ways not thought of before . but when they do n't have any talent , they should n't be allowed to do it . i am an aspiring film composer taking classes , going to movies , and buying soundtracks to learn as much as i can about it . it gives me a moment of pause when decisions like this are being made about major films . i know it 's just clint eastwood attempting this , but what if more actors and/or non-composers try doing it ? please , no more soundtracks mr. eastwood ! you do what you are good at and leave the music to the established , experienced , and well-known composers of hollywood . bryan arata