perfect pop album ? not even close well , it has been more than two years now , and perfect pop album is ( somehow ) back after it 's very minor success with the first edition , and it seems that this new edition is going to do even worse . first problem , hollywood records should n't be doing complications . they are disney records 's sister . i mean , look at the tracklistings . they look like another radio disney jams cd . joss stone , josh kelly , and liz phair are really the only reason buying `` got hits 2 '' . the rest are disney channel fillers . the cd starts with seven disney acts in a row , starting with hilary duff , the lastest flop in the music industry . depsite the fact she had multi-platinum success with `` metamorphisis '' , she did n't even go gold on her self-titled second album . `` come clean '' was really the only big hit by this artist , which to me was a big shocker , `` so yesterday '' was way better . then we move to jesse mccartney , oh boy ! `` beautiful soul '' may have a good melody , but jesse 's vocals , awful . and the lyrics make no sense . `` i do n't want another pretty face , i do n't want just anyone to hold , i do n't want my love to go to waste , i want you and your beautiful soul . '' well , if you think about it , is n't that a beautiful soul ? a girl with a pretty face , and good personality ? whatever . let 's move on to jojo . okay , i do n't mind her , as long as you put something decent by her , like `` leave ( get out ) '' . instead , they put her hit `` baby it 's you '' . the song did well on the charts , and the song is decent , but i think i 've had enough . but wait , there 's four more ! lindsay lohan is next up , she did n't have many hit songs , unless you cou n't her minor `` rumors '' big . they put on `` ultimate '' . wtf ? when and where was that a hit ? or maybe i should look on foriegn charts to see why hollywood records chose this . it was on the 2003 soundtrack `` freaky friday '' , and all of the sudden it 's big . moving on . next up is bow wow 's rival , romeo . okay , for all honesty here , how did he get a record deal ? master p 's song `` make em say ugh '' was n't bad enough ? `` my cinderella '' is just a poor quality rap song you 'd hear on radio disney . then we have skye sweetnam . now , `` tangled up in me '' is actually a decent song . it 's melody is damn catchy , and they have pretty good voices . i definitely would n't recommended their `` noise from the basement '' album . way too much filler . then we have unknown jump 5 . okay , do n't name the album got hits if you have an unknown artist . anyway , `` god bless the u.s.a. '' is horrible , they ca n't sng their way out of a bag . then we 're finally up with disney artists ( but their revenge comes again later in the cd ) . next , we have a country song by rascal flatts . it 's okay ; not a country fan . the album is called `` got hits 2 : more perfect pop '' . notice the uppercase letters . then , we have our first song worth listening to , from joss stone . though , `` some kind of wonderful '' was barely a hit , it 's still an awesome add , as the song is decent . she has a great voice and her songs are great ; jazz flavored pop songs . then we have raven-symone and the cheetah girls . i 'm not even continuing with this song , since those artists alone should spell trouble . luckily , after that , we have alternative rock queen liz phair , with her self lyriced `` extraordinary '' . the song is excellent , from the jammin ' guitars to the extraordinary lyrics , to her voice . you should definitely check out her music , especially her older stuff . two paragraphs back , i said that disney 's revenge is coming . well , the disney radio artists have returned . we have raven symone ( second time on this cd ) doing `` supernatural '' , which was probably the biggest hit in disney radio history , and is featured on `` the haunted mansion '' soundtrack . on regular top 40 radio , never heard it . the song is average at best , and the same rule applies . just because you have a big tv show , does not mean your vocals are automatically good and you can make a record . and the same rule applies with the next artist . once again , the second song on this cd by hilary duff , and she brings her sister into the song , which is the third disney soundtrack song . this one was featured on the `` a cinderella story '' soundtrack . okay , this remake is just horrific . first , you have the second worst vocals in the history of music ( milli vanilli being the worst ) , then you have `` our lips are sealed '' . now , the go-gos version is very good , but the lyrics do n't even fit hilary . next , we have the vengaboys . enough said . then we have some group called mr. c and the slide man . maybe i 'm not quite old enough , but who the f is this ? the song is ridiculous , and definitely should not end up on a 2004-2005 hits album . then , josh kelley 's `` amazing '' is amazing , and he actually writes his music . that gave me some hope about the end of this album ... but wait ... we 're at the end . unless you 're a gigantic fan of radio disney and like 2003 songs on a 2005 complication , avoid this on all costs , and get now 19 in stores tuesday july 19 , 2005 . replay value : low child appeal : high teen appeal : low adult appeal : lo