`` o '' my god no ! ! before you dismiss me as a stupid hater , hear me out . i personally think omarion is a reasonably good singer & one helluva great dancer , but i swear to god that this is one of the worst albums i 've ever heard . this album is entirely deprived of emotional depth & there 's not a shred of originality in sight or -more importantly- in sound . you 've got love , sex & below-average club bangers , but nothing beyond that ! if there 's anything that annoys me more than the fact that i bothered taking the time to listen to this near-worthless junk , it 's knowing that omarion 's fans & groupies were insane enough to blow their hard-earned cash & propel this album into the # 1 spot on the billboard album top 200 ! that says alot about musical standards nowadays . however , there are some bright spots on the album that show hints of true potential in omarion . `` i wish '' is a beautiful slow jam about wishing he never fell in love with his certain girl , while omarion 's hit single , titled `` o '' , will have any girl melting slowly as they listen to his smooth vocals , regardless of unoriginal subject matter . `` touch '' is also another highlight , combining catchy , simplistic , danceable beats with smooth vocals & unoriginal subject matter ( in this case , lust & sex ) . then again , most club bangers do n't need much substance , so it 's no big deal in this case . i personally think this track deserved more success . oh yeah , better not forget `` growing pains '' , a touching song that explains omarion 's break-up with former hit r & b/pop group b2k ! however , 3 great tracks & 1 above-avergae track ( touch ) are not enough to save this album from falling apart . the rest of of this album is utter garbage ( to put it lightly ) , and anyone with at least 1/2 a brain will realize how tragic this album really is . omarion needs to put more thought & substance into his music before anybody truly begins to take him seriously ! i hope omarion improves if he decides to make a 2nd solo album , but until then , definitely skip this ! ! nb : in case anybody 's wondering why i bothered to review an album i consider to be so bad , it 's because i feel that nobody , and i mean nobody , should be wasting their hard-earned cash on such ridicious , mentally corruptive bubblegum cr*p like this . not only that , but omarion does n't deserve the success his album got . there 's obviously many more artists out there who are more deserving of success than omarion in terms of a solo career