an objective bright eyes review well , before buying this i had never even heard of bright eyes . just so you know my background , i generally dislike indie and emo . i usually listen to hardcore and screamo . but for some reason i became interested in this band . ( or person ) someone compared a cd of their 's to a death cab cd . me being a pretty big death cab fan , i decided to go out and buy this ep to see if i liked this band at all . this review is the result of that listen . the ep opens up with the slow acoustic guitar picks of `` a line allows prgress '' ... a few seconds into the song i am greeted with with drums and an organ . this song sounds like a slower cursive song . the guy 's voice sounds decent . i guess the vocal effects he uses are for emotional purposes . overall this is a pretty decent song . it reminds me of hotel california . next in line comes one of my favorite tracks on here : `` a perfect sonnet '' . i do n't know if it 's the simple guitar stum or the sense that his voice is going to explode any moment . seriously , the whole song i was thinking that everything was about to fall apart ... but it did n't . he keeps going and going . it must be his voice that creates this mood . this was also the point of the cd where i realized that it was a bit more than music i was listening to . bright eyes will make you feel moods that other music ca n't . it 's got a unique brand of emotion that is new to me . it 's too bad this song ends so quickly . as i press on to : `` on my way to work '' i begin to get the feel for the cd . he 's almost whispering on this track . there 's an odd sounding guitar picking and a country sounding synthesizer . quite frankly , i hate this song . it sounds like an offkey country ballad ... who wants that ? the next two tracks are more or less the same feel . a new arrangement provides better quality music than the craptastic on my way to work , but does n't reach the level of a perfect sonnet . finally , the ep is ended with the techno atmospheric : neely o hara ... i do n't know what to say . it 's meaningless . i do n't see how you can like this . it 's just pointless . overall this is a half and half ep . the first two tracks are good ... but the rest of the cd falls between failing and decent . if bright eyes good churn out more tracks like a perfect sonnet , this band would get at least a 4 star . sadly thats not the case . so i do n't recommend this for anyone other than the really dedicated fans . perhaps the other cd 's are better