do not buy if planning to play on pc this is a copy of the review on amazon.com for van zant 's get right with the man which is another sony corrupted title . `` this cd secretly installs drm ( digital rights management ) software on your pc without your permission . not only does it do this , but the software then hides itself by installing as a `` root kit . '' as per wikipedia , -- root kit from wikipedia , the free encyclopedia . a root kit is a set of tools used by an intruder after cracking a computer system . these tools can help the attacker maintain his or her access to the system and use it for malicious purposes . root kits are known to exist for a variety of operating systems such as linux , solaris and versions of microsoft windows . a rootkit typically hides logins , processes , files , and logs and may include software to intercept data from terminals , network connections , and the keyboard . in many sources , rootkits are counted as trojan horses . -- in this instance , sony installs drm software to copy protect their cd , and prevent it from being copied to various devices , all the while not telling you , the user , or letting you uninstall it because it hides itself from the user and windows . manually trying to uninstall it like some people have done , results in their cd-rom drives disappearing entirely from windows , as sony installs their own custom cd-rom drivers onto the system . do not support this wreckless kind of copy protection . show the music business this is *your* music . *you* purchased it , and they should *not* be able to dictate how you can use it . do not buy this cd. `` a list of affected titles can be found here : http : //www.eff.org/deeplinks/archives/004144.php and another part of an amazon.com review for the van zant cd `` amazon rocks . they pulled they infected cd 's from sale and allowed these reviews that tell of the problems . shame on sony they not only messed with the consumers but also the artists . '' trey anastasio , shine ( columbia ) celine dion , on ne change pas ( epic ) neil diamond , 12 songs ( columbia ) our lady peace , healthy in paranoid times ( columbia ) chris botti , to love again ( columbia ) van zant , get right with the man ( columbia ) switchfoot , nothing is sound ( columbia ) the coral , the invisible invasion ( columbia ) acceptance , phantoms ( columbia ) susie suh , susie suh ( epic ) amerie , touch ( columbia ) life of agony , broken valley ( epic ) horace silver quintet , silver 's blue ( epic legacy ) gerry mulligan , jeru ( columbia legacy ) dexter gordon , manhattan symphonie ( columbia legacy ) the bad plus , suspicious activity ( columbia ) the dead 60s , the dead 60s ( epic ) dion , the essential dion ( columbia legacy ) natasha bedingfield , unwritten ( epic ) ricky martin , life ( columbia ) ( labeled as xcp , but , oddly , our disc had no protection