technicial blunder i can not imagine what sony or their sad , sad technicians were thinking - or not thinking when they `` remastered '' this great musical . i hope - and one can only hope - whomever it was that `` remastered '' this music ( and i ca n't imagine why they would call it re-mastered ) that they got fired afterwards or went back to basic recording school . mastering a musical cd means that you check your levels and balance - something they either forgot to do or were too busy talking while they should have been listening to what they were doing . did sony imagine they 'd be able to sell this on it 's own merits ... that being an attractive , well known , sell-able music cd of a charming musical - while duping the buying public ( sadly me included ) that it would be something worth having for any broadway music collection ? ? well i was most assuredly fooled . even with my cheap ( sony by the way ) 2 track tape deck could have come up with better than this rendition . i just can not abide that some highly technical `` master '' of recording equipment could n't fix this before the thing was committed to a glass cd master to be cut in quantity , offered and distributed as a `` remastered '' version that should have been better than the original but sadly is n't even close . i thankfully , still have a cassette tape version of this musical from when it was first released many years ago and prefer that to this impossible display of cd `` mastering '' i have ever heard - and i 've heard a lot of quality remastered cd 's - but this is n't one of them . the only saving grace of this cd is some of the extras that have been included . but not at full price..if you ask me . think twice or at least understand at the outset what you 're getting ... .a very poorly `` rekindled - not remastered '' cd that has some singers sounding as if the `` technicians '' forgot to bring up the volume on those tracks . pretty sad , pretty sad . disappointing . love the musical - hate the lousy cd