wow ! ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ..what a transition ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .. ya know , when i heard that mobb deep signed to g-unit i was more suprised that 50 cent was actually familiar with a group as great as mobb deep . i did n't even think 50 knew mobb deep existed let a lone that they were legends in new york . i mean i know 50 's from nyc but think about it ... .new york is one of the top 10 most populated cities in the world . n-e-wayz ... .yo this cd is definately different from their earlier works on `` hell on earth '' and `` the infamous '' albums . but just because it 's different does n't mean that i 'm impressed . obviously , mobb deep is tired of rapping about things that are real where they grew up and they 've given up by signing with 50 to make more money . i mean ... .it 's all on their titles on the list of songs . does this all mean that their sellouts ? well ... .considering i 'm a mean critic of true underground hip hop music ... i 'm really not sure . every artist/groups have different intentions . i mean ... with a group as big as this ... maybe theres a motive to their madness ? ? ? i 'm trying to look at this from different points of views . mobb deep has been doing it a long time and all throughout the east coast and new york they are considered veterans of this game . doing it since what ... 1993 right ? ? i honestly think that their trying to win brand new fans of the mainstream/commercial rap radio listeners . i think once they have new fans they will blow up and come back with the rawness that they had on the hell on earth album . we may have to wait until their 3rd album or so from g-unit . but hey , i could be wrong and maybe their just submitting their careers to 50 , i dunno . nonetheless ... .compared to their earlier releases this album is pure garbage . i agree with one of the kid reviewers that prodigy is trying to sound like 50 . i suggest you just download or burn a few songs from this cd instead of buying the whole thing . there are no more than 5 good songs on this album . oh yeah and the album gets better at the end . too bad they wasted their songs as radio hit singles . peace