the review of the century . i bought this album determined not to pay attention to any negative reviews from this site or any other . i have never been proven so wrong in my life . this album is inexcusably bad . ths following review sums it up exactly . 21 of 36 people found the following review helpful : deplorable ... ... ! , september 20 , 2005 reviewer : brendan `` bren '' ( new york ) - see all my reviews whoever is the creative genius behind this miss matched mess of a tribute should be fired immediately from whatever label or organization commissioned this album . nostalgia aside , never have i heard such an amazing , talented group of performers ( some of them amongst my favourites - aretha franklin , beyonce , stevie wonder , alicia keys , john legend , patti labelle , angie stone ) sound so unprepared , vocally dull , poorly produced and karaoke-like ! talk about the right singers singing the wrong songs and then the wrong singers singing the right songs - who had the gall to give 'never too much ' to mary j . blige ? ? ? and 'superstar ' to usher ? ? ? ? usher ? ? ? ? ? of all the incredible r & b singers in existence , including the completely acceptable version by ruben studdard , you will give a classic like 'superstar ' to usher ? ? ? unreal . this whole project just sounds like/ reeks music biz politics to me ... .my baby fantasia , im sorry , this is the worst thing i have ever heard her sing and i think fantasia is incredible . and what da * ! @ # ! ! is that bunch of musical messes in between - celine dion ( mediocre ) / donna summer ( a remix nightmare ) wyclef jean ( unspeakable ) beyonce & stevie ( boring , and i love those two ) aretha franklin ( a la divas live solo - all over the place ) / babyface ( boring ) patti labelle ( predictable ) - oh my goodness . too much . barely saving the album by sheer musicality and good singing - john legend - truly an original sound - angie stone and jamie foxx ( would you believe ? ) . still - not the right songs to really make them shine . what a headache ... and perhaps the most absymal act of wanton disregard - where was luther 's friend , background singer , performer extraordinaire and confidante on this project - lisa fischer ? ? ? ? ? abysmal i say again . suggestion - next luther vandross tribute - and im sure there will be in a year or two - keep some of luther 's friends ... but please take some time to match the right song with the right singer ... .and some new , interesting voices please ... do some research - there are people out there who are amazing , unrecognised or yet unknown talents that would complement any tribute ... .ledisi , rachelle ferrell , raul midon , melonie daniels , will downing , leela james , lizz wright and a couple of undiscovered underground r & b/ jazz gems right here in new york , abby dobson , cole williams , r'kardo , gordon chambers , lynn lockamie , ryan shaw , sasha allen and the list goes on and on ... .singers who work tirelessly at their craft and consistently give great work ... i am appalled . may luther rest in peace , and not turn in his grave at this slapdash atrocity that does not give any valid credence to the magnificent body of work this artiste of standard has left to the world - as his legacy .