clever , girls , but not clever enough ... ok , first off , this is the first corrs release i 've listenend to . i 'm offering my opinion without knowing anything else they may have done . i 've listened to the cd 10 times or so , on random occasions when i need a break from my normal diet of punk and garage rock . it sounds good . a little too good . i agree that it 's overproduced , does n't sound even remotely spontaneous . the studio work is well done , but overdone . i 'd like to hear something else to see what they really sound like . the content of the songs is what bothers me . aside from being sappy , sentimental drivvel ( this is pop music , after all - i was n't expecting anything else ) , everything sounds like a commercial ditty or a part of a movie soundtrack . mmm-hmm . track 1 - i see a not-so overweight soccermom smiling on a treadmill at curves ( tm ) , then hopping in the ford expedition ( tm ) , and cheering on the kids at their soccer game with a sunnyd ( tm ) in each hand . track 2 - helicopter pans out as mid-20 's girl drives curvy mountain road in vw cabrio ( tm ) ( r ) with top down , thinking about handsome lover ... `` lmn '' ( r ) watermark in lower-right corner of screen ... track 3 - sad animals . images of puppys in cages . track 4 - actually , i like this one . mellow , laid back . track 5 - ugh . track 6 - this one is the most clever ! i see the band members - 3 girls , 1 guy - on one side of a table under a hanging lamp in an otherwise black room , while 3 gentlemen in suits open a breifcase full of money , push it towards them and say , `` as you 're aware , the radio has lost it 's credibility . the kids are figuring out that there are other bands out there , beside what we pump across the airwaves at them . we need to entice them back . if you want a single , and this pile of cash says you do , then you 'll do what you can to save this dying medium . hell , you work in the word `` radio '' and we 'll double what we 're giving you . '' come on , the song even sounds like a psa for the international radio marketing council ... track 7 - sounds like a pepsi commercial . track 8 - ugh . wait , was n't this track 5 ? track 9 - sappy , but ok . sounds like they actually put effort into the lyrics . thumbs up . track 10 - not remotely original , but alright . track 11 - interesting sound . good beat . correct me if i 'm worng , but was that a semi-pagan reference there ? that would be a bold move , for which i 'd applaud them , if in fact it is . not that i 'm pagan or anything , but hey , its a religiously positive , non-christian reference that does n't involve marilyn manson , and that takes guts . especially for radio-loving girls bands . track 12 - laid back . almost has a jazzy , lounge feel . track 13 - produced by former ace of base member ? bubbly , upbeat , not too bad . track 14 - written and produced by avril lavigne ... track 15 - wow ! a relatively celtic-sounding song from a relatively celtic band ! ! and instrumental , too - big thumbs up ! in fact , maybe that 's the key . whatever . long-winded , i know , but fair . this album did n't turn me off to the corrs completely , but i do n't have very high hopes now . flame away , kiddies .