one of the most overrated albums in rap 's history before getting steamed at the title of my review , take time and read my review in an objective sense . my critical anaylsis of this album was done strictly as objective as possible . i took my time listening to every single `` song '' on this album , so this is n't an uninformed review . now to the review . -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- hell on earth , mobb deeps third release , came out during the era of the media-fabricated and infamous east-coast-west-coast beef . throughout the album , you get a sense that the artist where suffucated by the negative climate of the time . the songs and lyrics on this album , in every way , reflect that era . starting off the album is a deep bass mixed with a dark-drum line instrumental . havoc and prodigy lace the beat with self glorifying , tough guy lyrics that accentuate the grimy instrumental . though this album has 14 tracks , you 've be hardpressed to differentiate one from the other if it was n't for the switch of beat . the level of variation in subject matter on this album is so limited that a review of one tracks lyrics will tell you all you need to know about the album , lyric wise . there are little to no song concepts on this album . nearly every single track on hell on earth is polluted with numerous references to someone getting shot , how much better prodigy and havoc are than you , and how they are from queensbridge , etc . through the lyrical context of this album , you almost get the sense that mobb deep was too consumed with the negative climate of rap at the time . you get the sense that they 're lashing out at anyone and everyone that may pose as a potential threat to them . cuts like `` drop a gem on them '' and `` bloodsport '' find them verbally attacking the late tupac shakur . the lyrics on this album get so rediculous at times that you have to wonder what these guys were thinking . you truely have to sit back and question how these guys could put out track after track of the same tired material . about the only saving grace of this album is the instrumentals . dark , grimey , and horror movie like , they paint a background of horror and terror . though good , the instrumentals of this album also start to sound repetitive as you get deeper into the album . after a while , they all start to sound like a cluster of the same stuff . i 'm sorry , but in no way shape or form is this as great of an album as some have stated . lack of variation in topics , ignorant , mindless gun and thug brovado give this album no depth . if you 're someone that is looking for intelligent lyrics or creative concepts , do yourself a favor and avoid hell on earth at all cost