original ... ..ha ... ..what a joke ! note : i bought this cd a while ago , the tunes were mediocre . then again i 'm probably biased because i do n't really like rap a whole lot . buuuut , what made me throw away this album you ask ? the guy is a racist , who uses this record as a soap box to talk about how evil white people are , and how they 're out to screw him over at every turn . seriously , listen closely , and i counted at least the first 4 to five tracks are sprinkled with racist lyrics . i despise bigots who may have had one or two bad experiences and then turn around and see fit to spit rhymes about how white people are keeping everyone down . i do n't care what race you are , do n't be hating on races just because you have a selfish , racist streak in you . in `` jesus walks '' he talks about how we need to defeat racism ... well he keeps harking on it . but he wo n't stop whining . i agree with him , racism does exist and it is a very real problem . however people like him play victim and make millions of dollars off it . i should n't have to listen to an album and feel bad about being white , or black , or any other race . such themes litter the album and take away from its supposed originality . additionally , why does he even think that he is worthy to call upon jesus ? the track following `` jesus walks '' he talks about getting falacio ( i 'm trying to be pc , not that it matters ) . i 'm no prude ... most of the music i listen is laden with `` foul language '' . the guy is a hypocrite to an insane degree . he raps about the same stuff . and its not different then most other rappers out there . he 's really not original at all . over and over and over again : look at me i 'm important , feel sorry for me . its like the emo of rap , the linkin park of rap . the guy is a megalomaniac , narcissist , self absorbed racist , and i wo n't be buying anymore of his music . summary : musically its ok , nothing really orignial . just ok if you like rap ( a genre i 'm still trying to get into ) . the guy is talented i 'll give him that . lyrically its a joke . he 's a fake . if that stuff matters to you . but if it dos n't , then ignore this review ... .or ignore it because you do n't like my opinion .