pulling for the real rocky on next album i am originally from the land of ten thousand lakes myself ( and there 's a hell of a lot more than ten thousand lakes , by the way ) . i am also a musician , singer , and writer of a `` country roots '' perspective ( who now lives 40 min . outside nyc ) , who understands how crappy the business can be . my biggest complaint about rockie , my fellow minnesotan , is simply this : he and his music do n't sound like they come from minnesota , nor carolina ( his birthplace , am i correct ? ) , and lotsa ' good country music comes from these two regions . i mean , this record is produced well and sounds generally good , but he sounds like someone who is taking the advice of all the jackasses from nashville who say , `` ya ' got ta ' sound like this and look like this ; 'cause that 's what works down here , plain and simple ! '' well , i think that theory is gon na ' die sooner than later . you gots guys like djerks bently and eric church who are still not exactly where country needs to be , but they are making a slight dent in the `` soccer-momming '' of country music . wan na ' hear good country music ? check out 10 city run ! they are what cmt should be airing , and they are getting airplay on `` wide open country '' ( seriously , check out this band , and my review of them -- 10 city run -- for they 're the real frickin ' deal ) . so rockie , my friendly advice would be this : drop the affected , mainstream , country radio accent ( do n't replace it with a hard-core minnesota accent , however -- fargoooo -- no good ) , get a band that plays more than one kind of country music , and draw on the great history of music that has come from minnesota ( jayhawks , replacements , even marvin rainwater , oh , and that bob dylan-dude ) and carolina ( too many influences to even start ! ) 'cause that 's you , man ! that 's where you 're from ! that 's how you 'll sound genuine ( as the one reviewer noticed how at times you seemed to be trying too hard , other times , not hard enough ) ! my theory : your hearts not in it ! you have tremendous talent and i 'm pulling for you , the next album , and the vikings -- the last , more reluctantly each year . god speed , bryan sw connecticut