john  norum +glenn  hughes !  元 europe の ギタリスト 、 john  norum が ９ ２ 年 に 発表 し た ソロ ２ 作目 。 元 deep  purple の ベーシスト ＆ ヴォーカリスト で あり 、 ｈｍ ／ｈｒ界 で も 屈指 の ソウルフル な 歌唱 力 を 持つ 、 glenn  hughes を ヴォーカル に 迎え た 、 実 に カッコイイアルバム 。 europe 時代 の よう な 叙情 的 な 曲 は なく 、 カラリ と 乾い た サウンド の ｈｍ ナンバー が 多い 印象 。john の ソロ ・ アルバム で は 一番 おすすめ 。 また 、 glenn 以外 の メンバー は don  dokken の ソロ でも 一緒 に プレイ し た peter  baltes （b ）、 hempo  hilden （dr ） が 参加 し て いる 。
  　 （ １ ） は この アルバム の ハイライト とも 言える ハード ・ チューン で 最高 に カッコイイ 。 ヘヴィ な ミディアム ・ チューン の （ ２ ） 、 僚友 joey  tempest が 歌う （ ５ ）、 これま た don  dokken の ソロ で の 相棒 だっ た billy  white （g ) が 参加 し て いる リフ が 印象 的 な （ ７ ）、 インスト ・ ナンバー （ ９ ） 、ちょっと ポップ な （ １ ０ ）、 glenn の ヴォーカル が 冴える スピード ・ チューン （ １ １ ） など 、 かなり の 佳曲 揃い 。 個人 的 に は 、 max  norman 独特 の レンジ の 狭い ミックス がちょっと 気 に なる が ... 。
  　 また 、 是非 john  norum と glenn  hughes の コンビ を 聴き たい ところ だ が 、 john は 音楽 性 以外 で の glenn の 言動 に は 、 かなり 呆れ て たらしい から 、 当分 無理 だろ う 。 ||| john norum + glenn hughes ! europe former guitarist , john norum announced in february that 92 of his solo . and former deep purple bassist and vocalist , hm / hr with a leading force in the world of soulful singing , glenn hughes joining the vocals , the album really cool . europe not as lyrical songs of the times , the sound dry and hm karari most impressive number . john 's solo album is the most recommended . in addition , glenn is not a member of the don dokken solo played together in peter baltes ( b ) , hempo hilden ( dr ) are participating . ( 1 ) is also cool to say the highlight and the best tune of this album hard . the medium-heavy tune ( 2 ) , joey tempest comrades sing ( 5 ) , and it was a don dokken solo buddy of billy white ( g ) an impressive riff that is joined to ( 7 ) , instrumental , no . ( 9 ) , a little pop ( 10 ) , glenn冴eru tune the speed of the vocals ( 11 ) and , quite matching music kei . personally , max norman 'd be curious to have a narrow range of unique mix ... . in addition , glenn hughes and john norum come , but i hear the duo , john glenn is in the behavior of non-musical , from the lingering quite appalled probably not anytime soon .