leonard cohen est grand ceci est un immense chef-d'oeuvre : belles mélodies toutes simples et textes au combien poétiques . dans ce premier disque , cohen a su créer des musiques attrayantes pour coller à ses textes d'une valeur littéraire incontestable . il n'y a rien à jeter sur cet album : musicalement , on y trouve de l'excellentissime ( suzanne , sisters of mercy , so long marianne ) , du très bon ( master song , hey that 's no way to say goodbye , one of us can not be wrong , teachers ) et enfin du bon ( winter lady , stranger song , stories of the street ) . personnellement , en tant que francophone , je ne suis que moyennement sensible au coté poétique des paroles . non , pour moi leonard cohen , c'est aussi et surtout , ses mélodies , telles des mantras , jouées sur une simple guitare folk et cette voix envoutante ... disque sorti en 1967 , alors que tant de groupes tombaient dans le psychédélique et ses arrangement complexes , cohen prouvait que la musique pouvait etre simple et efficace et servir habilement de support à cet art plus noble ( ? ) qu'est la poésie . indispensable ! ||| leonard cohen is great this is a great masterpiece : beautiful melodies and simple how poetic texts . in this first disc , cohen has created music attractive to paste the texts of indisputable literary value . there is nothing to build on this album : musically , there are the most excellent ( suzanne , sisters of mercy , so long marianne ) of very good ( master song , hey that 's no way to say goodbye , one of us can not be wrong , teachers ) and the good ( winter lady stranger song , stories of the street ) . personally , as a francophone , i am only moderately sensitive to the side of poetic words . no , for me , leonard cohen , is also and above all , his melodies , like mantras , played on a simple folk guitar and the captivating voice ... disc released in 1967 , while both groups fell into the psychedelic and complex arrangement , cohen proved that music could be simple and effective and used skillfully to support this noble art ( ? ) is poetry . indispensable !